and are saying to yourself you know
you're hoping perhaps to get like you
know
a lacrosse match or uh you know a a
session on the
the benefits of uh static record
cleaners you know a little call-in talk
show or something
and you're wondering why you should stay
tuned for this kind of uh ponderous
stuff
a very good example is is all around us
right now which is the
the eruption recently of information
that uh has been sort of dubbed by the
press
uh you know iran gate contra gate or uh
you know
your iran muck or whatever you know all
these names they're trying to come up
with it
but the central facts uh are that um a
lot of things about the the the conduct
of foreign policy in this country in
this
this supposedly or putatively democratic
country have sort of um
uh come oozing to the surface uh from uh
you know
passing up through this uh this veneer
of respectability
and some people are honestly surprised
now of course one step beyond listeners
our listeners up here at the
at kfjc and people who listen to may
brussel and other people doing this kind
of work of course they're not surprised
at all it's better many of them knew it
already
and are more surprised at the surprise
of others
but the facts are that these things are
going on
um they're not hidden they are not
occult in the sense of the word meaning
uh you know hidden or
or in the dark where you can't find it
these are things that are happening many
cases in broad daylight and being
reported in the mainstream news media
but if you don't follow the media
carefully if you don't put stories
together from different media
you know from radio from books from
magazines newspapers
if you don't combine these things and if
you don't follow the stories over time
the entire picture remains hidden you
only see a little snippet here somebody
gets
killed here somebody over here gets
arraigned on charges of uh you know
smuggling weapons somebody else over
here is being uh investigated for
financial
dealings and you know these things taken
separately mean virtually nothing
but when you know the players and you
know the people's names and you know
where they've been
you see that oftentimes not always but
many times these are all
single parts of larger cases and in fact
um the iran conjugate thing going on now
is just such a thing and we're hearing
not only about the illegal arms
shipments to iran which is really small
potatoes
but we're beginning to see a little more
public knowledge of such things as the
allegations that america's
america's foreign policy frontman in
this case the contras
dealing in drugs well a lot of people
are shocked at the mere concept that the
countries would deal
drugs you know these people that we're
giving money to well as we're going to
talk about tonight one of the main
mainstream uh avenues of covert foreign
policy in the united states for
many many years about 30 years now has
been um the use of the narcotics trade
to fund and support american foreign
policy covert foreign policy below the
level of the democratic debate
and we're going to be looking at that in
depth and this has been going on for a
long time
so if you're somebody who's been paying
attention to the iran nicaraguan affair
and saying
gee i wonder if that could really be
true well if you listen to this
and you tape it and you put it away then
you will have some information on your
side that will suggest not only is it
quite possibly true
but things like it have been going on
for so long that it's virtually an
institution in this country
and you'll be much better prepared to
deal with the blizzard of misinformation
that is issuing out of washington right
now
speaking of the iron agua or whatever
you want to call it iran conjugate
one of the things that uh has loomed
very large in the background of that
case
is the primary involvement of our
intelligence services in narcotics
trafficking and that
is the subject of tonight's broadcast
and once again reiterating what
we said at the beginning this program is
intended for taping off the air
and subsequent use as an audio study
resource this is not intended for casual
listening so if you have not already
begun
doing so please take this program off
the air if you're in a position to do so
because we're about to get into the meat
of the broadcast
now specifically tonight this is the
third of our radio free america programs
probably going to be
five but looks like at this point
because we still haven't gotten to klaus
barbie and some of the cocaine
connections
but and then we have to knock off the
age of psychedelia which also came from
the
intelligence services so uh the
this is the third of our broadcasts in
the uh series dealing with the
involvement over the u s intelligence
agencies
in the narcotics traffic and what we're
going to do to this evening specifically
is take a look at among other things the
drug enforcement administration
it's used not only as a cover for the
central intelligence agency but its use
as i guess you could say the drug
enforcement administration not the drug
law enforcement administration but
rather enforcing the drug trade not
combating it but
uh affecting monopolies and uh
regulating the trade i think
is the word i'm looking for not not
attempting to stamp it out or at least
not in the way that most people think
we're going to take a look at
an interesting case the first thing
we're going to be taking a look at this
evening is an interesting case
from a criminal syndicate called the
company quote unquote
now many people who are familiar with
the intelligence services in this
country will recognize that the company
is a standard reference by c i a
insiders
to the central intelligence agency the
question that we're going to be asking
uh sort of implicitly with the
information we're about to present is
is the company quote unquote an arms and
drug smuggling ring and the the inner
relationship between the arms traffic
and the drug traffic is one of the
things we focused on primarily in our
last broadcast
and what we're going to be asking is
basically is the company
part of the company and we're also going
to take a look at
a an assassination possibly two
assassinations involving elements
of the company quote-unquote that is to
say the
criminal syndicate which may or may not
be we obviously think it is part of the
cia or at least elements thereof
and uh the first thing we're going to be
hearing here is
a uh actually i guess literally part of
the kfjc archive this is a program
called
a well i shouldn't say it's now defunct
that's still aired on a couple of other
stations
but on on kfjc a now defunct program
known as hard rain
this basically was sort of this was part
of the
inspiration for our archive format it
was a half hour long program
which i did some years back and many
many programs of which are now in our
archive shows
this is a program done originally uh on
6 13 82 june 13 1982
and unfortunately the the articles which
are contained in this particular tape
are somewhere in our archives but buried
after one of a number of different uh
moves that we had to affect we do
live in apartments and we move around
and somewhere they are buried in a box i
think somewhere in my house however
fortunately we did get this stuff on
tape
so rather than having to disembowel my
entire residence
we're in a position to give this to you
via tape plus you have this wonderful
living example of why it's important to
tape these things
because our newspaper articles and books
are perishable just like tapes are
but you can get more information onto a
small tape and hang on to it and put it
in a safe place than you can with seven
thousand newspaper articles
stacked in boxes or in filing cabinets
or whatever i know roughly where the
articles are but
it just wasn't possible to get at them
at this point
so what you're going to be hearing is
about 15 or 20 minutes of a tape
from an old show that we used to have
here on kfjc and which is still heard on
a couple of other stations in the bay
area
it's called uh hard rain the show is
this is a program about
the company and this is hard rain
program from june thirteenth
nineteen eighty two anyway the first of
the articles that we're going to be
dealing with tonight
is going to introduce you to the company
and some of their activities
now the following story comes from the
san francisco chronicle
on april 28 1982
and this story is a dateline fresno it's
an article by bill wallace who's a
chronicle correspondent
it's dateline of fresno and it's
entitled story of spies
stolen arms and drugs
the story reads as follows
a federal judge here began hearing
testimony yesterday in a case involving
spies
drug dealers gun runners and a shadowy
group known to its own members as
the company
the defendants in the case former air
force master sergeant larry earl bryant
and inventor alvin snaper
are accused of stealing specialized
military equipment some of which is
classified
from the top security u.s naval weapons
station at china lake in the mojave
desert
bryant was indicted on four counts of
receiving embezzled property
two counts of conspiracy and one count
of embezzlement
snaper was accused of two counts of
conspiracy one count of embezzlement and
one count of receiving embezzled
property
both men have pleaded not guilty to the
charges
u.s district judge edward dean price is
hearing the case without a jury and the
trial is expected to last about two
weeks
taken from the base were nine infrared
sniper scopes a television camera for
taking pictures in darkness
fifteen hundred rounds of small arms
tracer ammunition for night combat
a five foot remote control helicopter
and secret components from the radar
unit of a sidewinder guided missile
federal agents say some of the stolen
equipment was going to be used to make
electronic equipment for drug smugglers
and some was traded to drug smugglers in
colombia for marijuana
according to documents filed in the case
bryant 42 was a retired air force master
sergeant from st
louis missouri who once worked at china
lake developing devices to counter
foreign radar systems
snaper was described as an inventor from
las vegas
the company the drug smuggling
organization to which police say bryant
and sniper belong
apparently took its name from jargon for
the cia
the organization reputedly has about 300
members
many of them former military men are
ex-police officers and nearly 30 million
dollars worth of assets including planes
ships and real estate federal drug
agents say the organization has imported
billions of dollars worth of narcotics
from latin america
and also was involved in gun running and
mercenary operations
25 reputed members of the group were
indicted by the federal grand jury in
fresno last year on charges ranging from
importing narcotics for sale
to stealing classified armaments the
indictment did not name the company
itself however
snaper and brian are the first
defendants to stand trial on the charges
in the fresno indictment
according to the indictment larry bryant
and several other men police say are
associated with the company took the
military equipment from china lake
between january and october
1979 five of the night scopes were
ultimately discovered in snipers garage
in las vegas
and another one turned up when police
raided a lexington kentucky warehouse a
bradley f
bryant had rented under a pseudonym
bradley bryant
is larry bryant's cousin and a man
police say is one of the ring leaders of
the company he is being held in lieu of
one million dollars bond at a prison in
elgin illinois awaiting trial on federal
charges of selling 250 000
worth of marijuana to undercover
narcotics agents
a sixth scope was found in the wreckage
of a plane that crashed off the coast of
colombia
authorities say the plane was on a drug
smuggling mission when it crashed
the other three scopes disappeared
entirely as have the radar components
and of the remote controlled helicopter
there have been several recent incidents
apparently connected with the case
last month andrew carter thornton ii one
of the men who had pleaded guilty in the
fresno case was shot two times in the
chest at point
blank range by an unknown assailant as
he walked out of a restaurant in
lexington kentucky
thornton a former narcotics officer
survived but only because he was wearing
a bulletproof vest
there have been no arrests in the
shooting and police say they have no
suspects
in january jean berry a state prosecutor
in charlotte harbor florida was shot to
death
as he answered his door earlier this
month police arrested bonnie kelly as
barry's murderer
kelly's husband wallace mcclure mike
kelly is a suspected member of the
company who pleaded guilty in the fresno
case last month
charlotte county sheriff glenn saper
said the berry slaying while not related
to the china lake thefts was a company
assassination
accomplished with the help of the
group's members florida law enforcement
officials say that
charles v harrelson a convicted slayer
indicted this month for the 1979 murder
of u.s district judge john h
wood in el paso is also a member of the
company unquote
and a close associate of wallace kelly
police said jamil jimmy chagra
a convicted drug dealer who is an
indicted co-conspirator in the wood
assassination case
once hired bradley bryant's private
security firm
staffed by reputed members of the
company as a bodyguard service
that's a very complex tangle of names
and
places and events i'd like to take a
minute to outline that before we discuss
the case uh or discuss that article
and move on to some more articles about
the case some of the names that we heard
keep in mind alvin snaper alvin snaper
is the very talented inventor
who along with mr larry bryant was
indicted
for allegedly stealing some very
sophisticated weaponry from the china
lake naval weapons
center at in the mojave desert
now larry bryant's cousin bradley bryant
is currently
in prison in elgin illinois awaiting uh
indict under indictment i should say on
marijuana smuggling charges you heard in
this story about a fellow named andrew
carter thornton ii who pleaded guilty in
the fresno case remember
snaper and larry brian are the first two
to stand trial in the case
well mr andrew carter thornton ii
pleaded guilty in the case and then was
shot
in the chest at point-blank range
although survived thanks to a
bulletproof vest
nobody has been indicted no suspects
have been
uncovered in the case you heard about
gene berry
a florida prosecutor who was murdered by
a fellow or by
a woman named bonnie kelly who's the
wife of wallace kelly who's a fellow who
is in the company we also heard about a
guy named charles
v harrelson who's indicted for the
assassination of
federal judge john wood the only federal
judge ever assassinated in the line of
duty by the way
and charles b harrelson who has been
indicted for shooting judge wood as a
member of the company
and a fellow who is under indictment
with him a guy named nigemil
jimmy chagra once hired a bradley
bryant's private security firm which
apparently employs members of
of the company unquote
a couple things i'd like to point out
long time listeners to hard rain will
will recall that in february of 1981
we discussed of the company we read an
article that
was from the san francisco examiner in
december of 1980
and that article dealt with the company
and it
at that time the weaponry stolen from
china lake was
not and the the radar system stolen from
china lake was not to be traded for
drugs and or given to drug smugglers at
the one of the
the reasons that one of the people who
had helped smuggle the stuff out of
china lake gave for having brought this
out apparently this person was told that
this was going to be used by the cia and
exchanged in
libya for some soviet to build a radar
equipment i guess that
had been given to the libyans in which
was going to be exchanged and given to
the cia for this stuff
so keep that in mind that this this uh
information
maintaining that the china-lake weaponry
was to be given
to drug smugglers or swapped for
marijuana marks a significant change
from the
facts of the case or the information
about the cases we first saw it in
december of 1980
or as we saw it in february of 81 the
this article was from late december of
1980.
now you'll recall that on the pin that
very same hard rain broadcast from
february of 1981
we took a look at the
strange and ominous doings of the turple
wilson corkula wing of the cia we
took a look at some jack anderson
material which later exploded into a
very huge very big story in the new york
times and all the other papers
this concerned the activities of ex
unquote cia men and special forces and
training and arming
moammer qaddafi's security people and
terrorists and so
forth and i did appeared pretty clear
from those stories
it appeared pretty it appeared to be
pretty clear that basically
these people were not ex-ci at all that
they were still with
the company and among the activities
among the bases that were touched by
triple wilson corcola and company
were among those bases was china lake
they were involved
with the smuggling of weaponry from
china lake to libya this was part of the
triple wilson corcola scam
so keep in mind the interesting
coincidence here between the company
unquote
and triple wilson corcola libya etc
now one of the most important uh
connections to the company here concerns
the assassination of
federal judge john wood in texas now
you'll recall that charles v harrelson
who's been indicted on the case is a
member of the company
his co-indictee on in the case jimmy
chagra
once used bradley bryant's security
service which basically is staffed by
people from the company
for bodyguards now keep that in mind
because a very significant connection
appeared concerning the company
and the assassination of judge wood
this story appeared in the san francisco
chronicle on thursday
april twenty second of nineteen eighty
two it's a one sentence story at only
one sentence and this is the only paper
i even saw it and it's a upi story
dateline new orleans and headlined
perjury charges it reads as follows
joseph p marcello junior 58
the brother of reputed mafia boss carlos
marcello surrendered to federal
authorities yesterday on charges he lied
to a grand jury investigating the
assassination of a federal judge in
texas
that was we saw at the top of the top of
the uh
broadcast the assassination of
judge wood is the only assassination of
a federal judge that has ever taken
place no judge has ever
been offed in connection with his work
no federal judge that is and so
when the article that we just saw makes
a very oblique reference to the
assassination
assassination of a federal judge in
texas that is
definitely judge wood that's whose
assassination this refers to now this is
significant uh carlos marcello is a name
that uh
crops up frequently in the investigation
of uh
you might call what what one might call
the underbelly of the united states he
has
massive mafia connections he's also done
work for the cia in the past
long time hard rain listeners will
recall that in the early summer of 1980
about two years ago we dealt with mr
carlos marcelo in connection with
the assassination of president kennedy
the house select committee on
assassinations named martillo
and his associate david ferry as
probable conspirators in the
assassination of president kennedy
that came as no surprise to people that
had been studying the jfk assassination
because
certainly carlos marcelo's name is one
of those that crops up most frequently
and it
certainly appears that he was involved
in some way with the assassination of
president kennedy so keep in mind
the brother of carlos marcello's being
indicted on perjury in connection with
the judge wood assassination case
because
his brother carlos marcelo is a very
very important figure
all right and we are back live in the
studios at kfjc this is niptuck with
dave emery and of course what you just
heard
was a segment of a hard way and rain
broadcast from june 13th 1982
and that was to introduce you to the
topic tonight for those of you who tuned
in after the beginning
of the broadcast in our introduction
this is the third of a five part series
on the connection between intelligence
and the international narcotics trade
and what this particular tape was
referring to or was was an introduction
to
was the strange situation of the company
a drugs and guns outfit known as the
company which also just happens to be
coincidentally or otherwise
which is what we are trying to ascertain
um a well-known nickname
among its uh its initiates uh for the
cia or for
cia and uh what we're going to be
examining is how some of the folks
in the company the guns and drugs
operation connect up with some other
people who are known
uh coffee dance intimates or whatever
you might want to say of
uh the real life honest to god langley
virginia cia
right and what we're going to be taking
a look at in particular now is one of
the company quote-unquote operations
namely
the assassination of federal judge john
wood in 1979 the only federal judge so
far he's
the only federal judge that's on record
i've noticed some interesting apparent
heart attacks of judges but
the only assassination shooting of a
judge so far
uh basically now reviewing a couple of
the pieces of information that
will relate to what we're talking about
here it's worth noting among other
things the number of people who
have been assassinated in connection
with various investigations into the
company
members of the company key witnesses uh
a prosecutor in florida or
district attorney i can't remember which
named barry
was shot at and as we're going to see
you know
the mortality rate in and around this
arms and drug smuggling ring which
appears
uh at least from circumstantial evidence
to be part of the us intelligence
apparatus
well the mortality rate has been very
very high and
recall also that that the high-tech
weaponry being smuggled from china lake
naval weapon center which is an
extremely high security area i mean you
just don't walt in there and walk out
with a
purchase order for uh you know starlight
sniper scopes and things of that type
uh keep in mind that that was with the
area from which mrs turple and wilson
got much of their high-tech weaponry to
send to uh our boy mohammed
oh kodaki in libya now uh as we've
looked at
turple and wilson's libyan operation was
not a an
ex-u.s intelligence operation at all if
indeed it was not
cia then it was certainly working for
one of our other intelligence services
either the nsc the nsa the dia or one of
the others
the circumstantial evidence is that
there may have very well been a
connection
between the company quote unquote and
the triple wilson operation
the first report on the company had the
uh the weaponry going to libya
and then it said that it was going to
drug smugglers in south america both may
in fact have been true but the china
lakes connection here
is very very important remember the high
mortality rate
in connection with this and also
and uh not unimportantly remember the
fact that the marcelo clan
has cropped up in connection with the
investigation into the assassination of
judge john wood
because in a sense our takeoff point at
this
juncture for that is the bulk of the
discussion this evening is going to be
some of the information that surfaced in
connection with
the assassination of judge john wood and
remember joseph marcelo carlos marcelo's
brother
he was being represented by a very very
interesting figure and a very important
name on the american far right
now before we get to the article one
more thing wanted to take it out to
macro focus again for a moment and then
bring it back down to the article
um as dave mentioned the china lake case
of which the company is
is uh supposedly involved in the the the
theft or the smuggling out of these
weapons and as dave also mentioned the
the the china lake
uh weapons repository is also linked uh
intimately to the turple wilson uh
gang or whatever you want to call them
and their shipments of arms originally
libya also possibly to central and south
america at the beginning of tonight's
broadcast i made a sort of a larger
point
about one of the reasons that we're
interested in the intelligence and
narcotics
uh connection because of the surfacing
of
of these allegations uh within the iran
slash nicaragua case now
interestingly enough not only of course
is ed wilson uh
just by his very uh his his the people
he hangs out with connected in a larger
sense to most of these intelligence
scams going on right now
but he and richard secord and some other
people are very explicitly connected to
the armed shipments to iran and others
so again a connection here between the
china lake case and the company
and ed wilson was certainly a company
employee in the sense of the cia meaning
of the word
but a connection between ed link ed
wilson and the china lake case
also now ed wilson and his his buddies
uh connected seemingly certainly to the
libyan case
also connected to the iran case means
that this
three-year-old murder excuse me a
five-year-old murder now that we're
talking about
um may be more more intimately connected
to the current goings-on
than anybody has previously thought now
again dave mentioned
uh joseph marcelo the the infamous
marcelo family
one one quick reference nip the china
lake connection was actually discussed
in radio free america number four our
program about
the triple wilson operation excuse me
then also brought up again
uh very briefly and actually maybe we
only read the headline but then in rfa
number 22. so if people would like to go
back
and review it a hard way the china lake
connection to triple wilson
those are the rfa references indeed now
the marcello family has mentioned
a rather interesting family carlos
marcello of course intimately connected
with the drug trade
through his mafia connections and also
of course
excuse me a long time name that has been
mentioned
in conjunction with a kennedy
assassination time and time again which
of course we will also be talking about
later in the broadcast right and again a
quick
archive reference guns of november
number one we discussed the marcelo
connection in his relationship with
david ferry
now the other name that dave mentioned
is the name of a well-known attorney who
has uh
just recently shuffled off the mortal
coil and i'm sure you will recognize
that name when we get to it
the article that we are reading is from
the new orleans times picayune for
tuesday september 21st
1982 this article was originally
provided to us back in 1982 by ted
rubenstein a researcher
who has done a lot of good work and
shared it with us and who we have talked
about before
the headline is marcelo kim's trial
postponed can of course k-i-n apostrophe
yes
the dateline is san antonio it's a upi
wire story
a perjury trial from new orleans
restaurateur joseph marcelo
was postponed monday because his
attorney is out of the country
federal judge h.f hippo garcia
set no other date for marcelo's trial
which was to have begun with jury
selection tuesday
attorney roy cohn asked for the delay
because he had to be in europe
martello the leader of reputed organized
crime leader carlos martial of new
orleans
is accused of lying to a grand jury
about his knowledge of the 1979
assassination of federal judge
john wood of san antonio although
neither marcelo is accused in the
slaying
federal prosecutors say they have a tape
of joseph marcelo telling someone he
knew
who was involved quote these are the
people that connected with the killing
of the judge in el paso
unquote marcelo said the judge is dead
this was their three people unquote
but when asked about the tape in june
1980 before a grand jury investigating
woods death
marcelo refused to identify his voice or
acknowledge the conversation
prosecutors said the tape was made at
carlos martella's office in connection
with the federal brylab investigation
b-r-i-l-a-b
alrighty now roy cohn of course is one
of the luminaries of the america was
he's dead now of aids it was one of the
luminaries of the american far right
perhaps best known
for his work as the council to joe
mccarthy the late senator from wisconsin
who in essence uh trashed an entire a
generation of american politicos whose
politics fell anywhere
to the left of far right and was
responsible for
almost single-handedly driving the
american political spectrum
several clicks to the right by through
his investigations
roy cohn was his notorious uh chief
counsel
beyond that roy cohn has worked with
such organizations as western goals
the organization which was involved in a
very notorious police spying case a
couple of years back and which was
headed up by the late larry mcdonald
who died in the crash of korean airline
korean airlines flight double 07. also
in radio free
in radio free america in farewell
america a book put out by the french
intelligence service
about the kennedy assassination roy cohn
is implicated in the assassination of
president kennedy
now that's interesting of course because
he's representing the brother
of one of the organized crime figures
who in all probability was also
a participant in the kennedy
assassination there were a number of
organized crime links to the
assassination of john kennedy
carlos marcelo appears to have been one
of them now it's interesting that this
whole thing had
this uh perjury case
cropped up in connection with the
assassination of judge john wood
because there were allegations by none
other than the met the convicted
assassin of judge john wood
that in fact the case connected up with
the assassination of president kennedy
again research credit for the following
story goes to ted rubinstein
this is from the san francisco examiner
of tuesday november 2nd of 1982.
it's a upi story dateline san antonio
texas and headlined
witness says hitman is killer of judge
jfk
judge common jfk a convicted hitman
claimed he killed both
president john f kennedy and u.s
district judge john h
wood jr and plan to use that information
to bargain with the government
a lawyer who pleaded guilty to
conspiracy charges in the case testified
today
joe chagra c-h-a-g-r-a said charles
harrelson
h-a-r-r-e-l-s-o-n insisted he had killed
kennedy
and even drew a map of the area in
dallas where kennedy was shot in 1963.
chagra said harrelson also told him that
he hoped the information could get him a
life sentence in a comfortable federal
prison instead of the texas penitentiary
if he made a deal with the government he
could clear up the kennedy matter as
well as clear up the judge would matter
chagra said
although harrelson claimed to have been
cleared by a 1980 grand jury in woods
1979 shooting death he said he could
still prove he killed wood with quote an
ace in the hole
the murder weapon itself chagra said
in the same visit with chagra september
24th 1980
harrelson drew a second map of the area
east of dallas where he said
the rifle he used to kill wood was
tossed from a bridge
chagrin chagra reproduced the map later
and the fbi found it in a search of his
home
in february of 1981 so it's intriguing
that the
confessed assassin of john judge john
wood also
has confessed to being a one of the fire
team
that dispatched president kennedy in
dallas texas
and uh there has been a number of uh
there have been i should say a number of
follow-up articles
about the possibility that harrelson may
have been one of a number of riflemen
in dallas texas and uh there are some
interesting connecting links between
charles harrelson and some of the people
in particular some of the organized
crime people who not only
figure in the background of the
assassination of president kennedy but
who also are going to be
front and center in our discussion about
the interrelationship between
the intelligence services organized
crime and the narcotics traffic
all right now one of the things that
we're going to examine here for a moment
is we examine the
the strange case of charles v harrelson
uh the man who says that he was one of
the assassins of john f kennedy
we're going to talk about one of the one
of the most famous bits of arcana in the
study of the assassination of john f
kennedy and that's the dealy plaza
tramps
as they have been called and uh there
was a brief flurry that many of you out
there who have followed political
matters may have heard of for a while
where
uh there were strong suggestions that
the the tramps were in fact frank
sturgis and e howard hunt of watergate
fame
that largely came to naught although
there certainly was some rather
interesting uh
similarities between one of the men and
e howard hunt in terms of just sheer
facial looks
but we're going to look at another
another viewpoint on that in light of
charles harrison's
uh confession this article originally
appeared in the cover-ups
newsletter uh july 1982 uh published by
gary mack in fort worth texas
and research credit for this also goes
to ted rubenstein and the article is
headlined is kennedy's assassin sitting
in texas jail
we're going to skip down to part way
into the article where he discusses
the three quote tramps and how they how
they made their way
into the the annals of kennedy
assassination research
they're talking about events that
occurred ex right after um
the shooting of president kennedy in d
lee plaza
um for those who don't know by the way
there's a railroad a railroad track
running right alongside and this is the
the center for a lot of this
activity a union pacific train
dispatcher named lee bowers
said he saw three men sneak into an
empty railroad car in the union rail
yards
just behind the texas school book
depository moments after the
assassination
bowers had the train halted when it
began to move out of the yards
and summoned dallas police several
policemen rousted the three men
out of the rail car at gunpoint and
marched them back past the book
depository
to the dallas county sheriff's office
located on the east side of dealey plaza
at least two newsmen took photographs of
the men as they were marched through the
plaza under armed guard
however once in dallas police custody
the man officially disappeared they were
never booked and any fingerprints or
names that were taken have never been
made public
these three men remain among only five
or six people that the fbi failed to
identify
who were on the scene at the time of the
assassination
for 19 years there has been considerable
speculation as to the identities and
activities of these three men
although they were called tramps by
police photos show the men had recent
haircuts
shine shoes and old but unsoiled clothes
in photographs they hardly appeared to
be tramps
skipping down on the article and uh
they're talking about the the guy who
wrote this article
uh took a picture of harrelson to a a
graphics expert to ask him after
harrelson's confession
if he could possibly be one of the men
in uh one of the three tramps or
photographed by news photographers
jack white a fort worth graphics expert
and assassination researcher who
testified before the house select
committee on assassination
told me meaning jim mars who wrote the
article told me
he is now convinced that harrelson is
the younger [ __ ]
quote i have done various photographic
comparison tests and everything matches
the hair the nose the ear it's haralson
in my mind
said white a long time advertising man
here
in addition to the photo comparisons
there is yet more evidence to indicate
that harrelson did indeed play a role in
the presidential assassination
when arrested harrelson was carrying the
business card of r d
matthews in subsequent interviews
harrelson admitted being a close friend
of matthews and said he looked up to
matthews as a father
russell douglas matthews is a former
dallas character who was close to dallas
nightclub owner
jack ruby the man who shot down accused
presidential assassin lee harvey oswald
matthews was described by the house
assassinations committee as a man quote
actively engaged in criminal activity
since the 1940s
the committee also documented matthew's
connections with dallas gamblers lewis
mcwillie
and benny binyan both of whom were
ruby's close friends
the committee also developed evidence
that matthews was in contact with
associates of mafia chieftain
santos trafficante of florida
excuse me matthews was linked by the
committee to fort worth and dallas
underworld characters such as
hollister lois green jetty bass nick
cassio and james todd
these white men as well as matthews were
acquaintances of harrelson
in a side light matthews was best man at
the marriage of a dallas underworld
character named george mcgann
to a woman named beverly oliver beverly
oliver a nightclub entertainer
was close friends with several of jack
ruby's employees
and was in dealey plaza filming the
kennedy motorcade at the time of the
assassination
mrs oliver now an evangelist using a
different name
said two fbi agents took her unprocessed
film
shot from the south side of elm street
and promised to return the original
print after it was developed
she now states that she never saw or
heard of the film again
now a couple of interesting points to
make in connection with this particular
article
obviously it's interesting that uh there
is this series of connections
between uh charles harrelson and some of
the organized crime figures who crop up
in the in the background of the
assassination of john kennedy or
as is is the case with jack ruby in the
foreground
of the john f kennedy assassination it's
interesting too that there are
connecting links between
charles harrelson and uh santos
trafficante and it was eight
connecting links meaning a set of mutual
associations
santos tropicante again uh we covered
this in guns of november number one the
first of our archive shows about
president
kennedy's assassination santos
tropicanti was known to
have boasted or stated to a fellow cuban
exile
named jose aleman that
quote president kennedy is going to be
hit in uh in in the middle of ranting
and raving about
how bad it was that the kennedys were
down on jimmy hoffa
santos trafficante stated that president
kennedy was going to be hit
and that a nut would have would no i
guess that was marcelo who said a nut
would uh do the job anyway santos
tropicanti said
after jose aleman expressed the uh
opinion that president kennedy would
probably be re-elected
santos tropicana said no jose you're
wrong he is going to be hit
now that's an interesting uh interesting
statement for santos tropicanti to make
because when he was uh subpoenaed to
appear before a congressional
subcommittee
he was was obviously terrified
to appear before that subcommittee
perhaps because fellow mafiosi
uh sam giancana and johnny roselli were
murdered in connection with their
testimony roselli just after testifying
giancana just before
santos tropicante is a very very
hardened individual not somebody who
would blanch at something as relatively
innocuous as testifying normally
so uh it's worth bearing in mind the
probable connections between santos
trafficante and the assassination of
president kennedy because santos
trafficante
and his links to among others richard
nixon and the central intelligence
agency is going to be one of the people
who's front and center in our broadcast
this evening
i would also state that although the
reproduction of the picture the mugshot
of charles harrelson shown in the
cover-ups issue that nip just read you
is not terribly good
i have seen other photographs comparing
the
large [ __ ] the young [ __ ] as he was
known he was the youngest of the three
tramps
and charles charles and on the basis for
example of photographs in penn jones
newsletter the continuing inquiry
i personally and obviously this is just
my opinion i'm absolutely convinced that
charles harrelson is indeed
the third [ __ ] the young [ __ ] uh many
uh not terribly skilled researchers have
suggested that that
young [ __ ] was frank sturgis it's been
pretty positively con
proved that that was not frank sturgis i
am personally convinced
that charles harrelson was indeed the
so-called young
[ __ ] one of the three men arrested it's
worth noting that lee bowers
was one of the people we covered in guns
of november number two one of the
mysterious deaths or perhaps not so
mysterious deaths in connection with the
kennedy assassination we should just
remind you uh
lee bowers was the the railroad
switching man who had
caught the tramps and called the police
and had the trams taken off from
whence they subsequently disappeared
from the dallas police station and again
i think the
comparative photographic evidence of
charles harrelson's mug shot
and the youngest and largest of the
three tramps is very very compelling
however a separate but uh
distinct but related question rather is
whether or not although i'm convinced he
was one of the tramps whether or not he
was actually a member of the
the fire team that dispatched president
kennedy is another question
uh it seems probable that the three
tramps played some role in the
assassination
but they may very well have not been the
uh
actual trigger men that that remains to
be seen i'm not saying that charles
harrelson was the trigger man
i am convinced he was the youngest of
the tramps so uh
whether or not the tramps were in any
way involved in the actual shooting
has yet to be proved i think that should
be stated because a lot of people have
automatically assumed that those tramps
were some of the fire team and that is
not necessarily the case i am convinced
that harrelson
was indeed the youngest [ __ ] and
whether or not he was a member of the
fire team
remains to be seen as we like to say
food for thought and grounds for further
research
now it's worth noting again harkening
back to the hard rain tape segment that
we began with that
that there's been a lot of mortality in
connection with
the investigation into this arms and
drug smuggling ring called
the company which may very well have
been part of the us intelligence apparat
when members of the company
uh came to trial there were a number of
death threats and
alleged death threats uh going around
one of them was a threat against the
judge hearing one of the cases
research credit once again for this
article goes to ted rubenstein this is
from the fresno b
of july 9th of 1982. it's by royal
calkins c-a-l-k-i-n-s a fresno b staff
writer at its headline
special protection given judge price
after death threats
for four months u s district court judge
edward dean price of fresno has been
under round the clock guard because of
death threats and additional concerns
stemming from the 1979 assassination of
a federal judge in texas
deputy u s marshals are expected to
continue providing special protection
for price for about a year said mike
nelson
deputy in charge of the u.s marshal's
office in fresno
nelson would not comment on the reasons
but others said price received death
threats in connection with upcoming
trials of 25 alleged members of the
nuestra familia gang
proceedings against the 25 defendants
were moved from fresno to sacramento for
security reasons but price is still
handling the cases
also contributing to the decision for
sources said was a recent trial in
price's courtroom involving thefts of
weapons and other military hardware from
china lake naval weapons center in the
mojave desert
federal authorities say one of the
defendants in that case bradley bryant
previously worked for drug smuggler
jameel a chagra c-h-a-g-r-a
one of five people indicted for the
sniper slaying of u.s district judge
john wood jr of san antonio texas in may
of 1979.
three federal officials said bryant put
chagra in touch with the contract killer
who fired the fatal rifle shot at judge
wood
a kentucky newspaper recently reported
and the threats against judge price were
not the only threats or not the only
assassination plots in connection with
the judge wood case this is a rather
interesting little
side light uh that originally this
article appeared in the east bay today
the oakland tribune slash east bay today
for tuesday
october 19th 1982 the headline is
assassination offer
and under we have this small interesting
but somewhat incomplete article
dateline san antonio texas an fbi
informer testified monday that he once
was offered fifty thousand dollars to
kill
charles v harrelson who is on trial
charged with assassinating u.s district
judge john h wood jr hampton robinson
iii
age 34 an admitted former heroin and
cocaine addict
who was given methadone before his court
appearance made the statement during his
rambling testimony
harrelson is on trial for the may 29th
1979 killing of wood
the 63 year old jurist was shot down
outside his san antonio town house
um now this is interesting now
admittedly the the the man who made this
allegation
as they said uh was in the midst of a
somewhat rambling testimony and uh was
given methadone before
um uh before his court appearance
however
um mitigating those facts is that first
of all
methadone from my understanding of those
types the the you know the pseudo
opiates uh
uh is not necessarily the type of drug
to lead you to make things up if
anything it tends to release inhibitions
um but my not being a doctor that
certainly can't be taken as gospel
however
what i would say is i don't think the
fact that he was given methadone
necessarily
um undermines his uh his the validity of
his charge which is at this point of
course obviously unproved
um the other rather interesting thing
though is that if it is something that
he made up it seems to me that
somebody on drugs is going to make up
something uh to tell in court
it seems to me they would make up
something a little more interesting to
the general public or you know to people
involved than the
that an allegation that somebody offered
him fifty thousand dollars to kill
charles harrelson who even at the time
when this case was current
uh was not you know a tremendously
important person and not tremendously
significant outside of the
the intelligence and assassination
milieu
um so that being the case we do wonder
uh reading this
this article we noticed that the guy is
an fbi informant but we're curious it
does not mention and i don't think we've
ever found out who it was exactly who
allegedly offered
hampton robinson fifty thousand dollars
to kill charles harrelson and at what
time
and what situation was he offered that
money so that's something to uh to put
into the uh
into the into the damper though and uh
hang
on to for some later point but as dave
said there are a lot of deaths
and allegations of assassination
attempts and things swirling around this
case
of the company and one uh one person
whose death was far more than an
allegation in connection with the judge
wood case
was a former san antonio prize fighter a
san antonio policeman and prize fighter
named benjamin boyd
smith he was assassinated most
definitely and he also was
involved in the investigation into the
killing of judge john wood
once again research credit for the
following article goes to ted rubenstein
it's from the san antonio express
specifically from the san antonio
express of september 1st
1982 the headline is wood investigation
figure found
slain and it's by karen kennedy and tom
nelson of the san antonio express and it
reads as follows
a former san antonio policeman and prize
fighter with ties to the judge john wood
assassination investigation through his
las vegas gambling connections
was found shot and strangled in the
trunk of a car left in an austin
warehouse district
benjamin boyd smith 54
had been dead at least four days before
his body was discovered monday morning
the travis county coroner's report said
he had been shot twice in the head and
strangled with a rope
smith had been a san antonio police
officer for two years before
pursuing a career as a professional
boxer he later spent 10 years in prison
and most recently worked as a debt
collector for las vegas gambling
interests
smith may have been questioned during
the federal probe of the may 29
1979 wood assassination because he had
been a bodyguard for las vegas gambler
jack strauss
strauss who won last year's world series
of poker in las vegas
testified before the grand jury that he
knew convicted drug smuggler jimmy
chagra
who has been indicted on charges of
arranging the assassination of the
federal judge
although smith never appeared before the
grand jury government sources said he
may have been questioned
by investigators so the death of
benjamin boyd smith is another thing to
keep in mind yet another death
in connection with the uh assassination
of judge john wood so again
bearing in mind the people discussed in
the uh
in the article that we uh in the tape
segment that we covered
it's worth considering who might have uh
dispatched uh mr boyd smith who why why
they might have done it
bear in mind the threat against judge
price bear in mind the allegations of an
attempt to put out a contract
on charles harrelson bear in mind the
possible connections of charles
harrelson to the assassination of
president kennedy in fact
probable connections in light of the uh
his probable role as the youngest [ __ ]
just before we go on to some other
things i want to mention broadcasting
from foothill college this is kfjc
los altos hills for those of you out
there who are
listening to this and saying well even
if these connections
these killings and attempted killings
and all that are connected
you know so what it's uh you know it's a
bunch of uh
crooks and and gamblers and drug
smugglers down in texas who killed a
federal judge probably and you know
things like that and
so what um just to let you know what
we're going to do is we're going to
begin taking some of these names some of
the high profile names as dave mentioned
like santos trafficante
carlos marcello and others in the in the
later part of the broadcast and we're
going to begin
piecing this into the larger national
and
international drugs and intelligence
connection so
again we're talking about this
particular case because it opens some
very interesting windows namely again
the charles harrelson connection
possibly to the kennedy assassination
but in the larger picture it also fits
in very much
with as i was saying earlier things that
are going on right now
in terms of things that our government
have probably been involved in in
central and south america
and again recalling some of the
information from the tape segment
this group is an arms and drug smuggling
ring with the same nickname as our
central intelligence agency
they had access to weaponry at china
lake naval weapon center that is an
extremely high security installation you
just don't go waltzing in and out of
china lake
with the kinds of material that they
were able to get their hands on
remember also the very possible
connection to edwin wilson and frank
turple
because in the first article alluded to
in the tape segment
it mentioned that the uh company quote
unquote was getting the material the
china lake weapons to libya that's where
wilson and turple were getting their
weapons to
and again the kennedy assassination uh
possible kennedy assassination
connection it's worth noting too one
article we did not
read but they were at one point the
company was reported to have been hired
to assassinate the ayatollah homemanie
so the context in which they appear is
one that strongly suggests intelligence
connections
now here's a rather interesting article
especially taken in in context with the
article coming right after it that dave
is going to read
this is from the san jose mercury for
thursday september 9 1982 the headline
is confession reported
in slaying of judge dateline san antonio
it's an ap
story a woman charged with conspiracy in
the murder of a federal judge wrote a
repentant letter to the judge's widow
confessing her role in the killing local
news media reported wednesday
in the letter to katherine wood
elizabeth chagra
said her husband told her he planned to
have u.s district judge john h
wood jr killed and said she later
delivered 250
000 in payment for the assassination
the fort worth star telegram and wfaa tv
in dallas quoted unidentified sources as
saying
the san antonio express and the san
antonio light
also quoted sources as saying mrs chagra
admitted delivering the payment
and said in the letter that she was
apologetic
the star telegram quoted a source is
saying that
in the letter sent from her bexar county
jail cell
mrs chagra said her husband walked into
the kitchen of their el paso home
while she was cooking and told her he
had decided to arrange
woods death the source said she wrote
that she later
was chosen to deliver the payment
because she was the only one chagra
could trust
the newspaper reported neither mrs wood
nor assistant u.s attorney ray john jhn
would comment on the reports
calls tuesday night and wednesday to
mississauga's lawyer warren burnett of
galveston were not returned
mrs chagra age 28 is accused of
conspiring with her husband jameel
jimmy chagra aged 39 his brother el paso
attorney joseph chagra
aged 35 and convicted hitman charles v
harrelson age 44
to kill wood in san antonio on may 29
1979 so according to the series of
articles written in the local newspapers
and apparently con
carrying quite a lot of detail uh uh
elizabeth chagra the wife of
jameel quote jimmy chagra uh actually
confessed in a letter to the judge's
widow that she had been
uh informed of and in fact after the
fact was part of
the assassination of judge john wood
does not appear though that uh his wife
said jamil chagra's wife's testimony had
much of an effect on the outcome of the
case
uh it should be noted if if that was in
fact the case that
uh i i think even in a letter a wife's
testimony cannot be used
against her husband um however it seems
that if it was she was so ready to
confess this other information should
have been developed out of that that
that would have been uh used could have
been used to find uh chagra guilty
such you know such a large scale crime
following stories from the san francisco
chronicle of tuesday february 8th
1983. stateline jacksonville florida and
it's a upi story headline the gambler
acquitted
of hiring judge's killer jameel jimmy
chagra
a las vegas gambler serving 30 years in
prison on drug charges
was found not guilty yesterday of hiring
the killer who shot down u.s district
judge john wood in san antonio texas
a 10-woman two-man jury found chagra not
guilty of murder and conspiracy to
murder
but inc but convicted him on two lesser
counts conspiracy to obstruct justice
and conspiracy to
possess drugs the government claimed
chagra had wood killed in may of 1979 to
avoid having to face trial in his court
a 39 year old chagra a licensed
professional gambler
was accused of paying charles b
harrelson two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars to kill the sixty one-year-old
judge may twenty ninth
nineteen seventy nine harrelson forty
four
was convicted of woods murder in san
antonio in december
so again as nip indicated the acquittal
of jimmy chagra is uh in and of itself
does not prove anything
uh it's interesting to note though the
uh the interesting convolutions the case
is taken
the death of a possible with the murder
of a possible witness
threats against judges which certainly
would have to carry some weight after
the assassination of judge john wood
the allegation by an fbi informer that
he was being hired to kill
charles harrelson who would have hired
him if that's true and why remains the
subject
of speculation the possible connections
to charles harrelson
and possibly also the marcelo clan the
assassination of president kennedy are
worth keeping in mind
and again the intelligence related
context in which
the company quote-unquote exists are
worth thinking about here
and the perhaps the single most
intriguing aspect
of the compa of the assassination of
judge john wood
and uh again one of just one of a number
of killings and attempted killings
attributed to
the company quote unquote perhaps the
single most important
uh at least for our purposes now aspect
of it that surfaced
were allegations by charles harrelson
that the drug enforcement administration
had had the judge assassinated indeed
this article is from the san francisco
examiner
for thursday december 16 1982 the
headline is
killer says judge slain by the dea
datelite san antonio upi wire story
federal judge john wood had information
that would have quote blown the lid off
the drug enforcement administration when
he was killed
probably by renegade government agents
says the man convicted of woods murder
charles harrelson held a press
conference yesterday in the chapel of
the bexar county jail a day after he and
two women
were convicted of complicity in the
slaying quote
i believe the government is in
possession of evidence that shows
conclusively i did not murder the judge
harrelson said
i believe i was under surveillance the
morning of may 29
1979 harrelson testified he was at his
dallas apartment when wood was shot here
275 miles away harrelson said during his
seven days of testimony that quote
rogue elements of the us government
killed wood
he elaborated at the press conference
saying that the dea
killed would keep him revealing that
quote 95
of the drugs brought in this country are
imported by the dea
let me go back and read these last two
paragraphs because i think they're
rather interesting
uh even if they are the claims of a
convicted murderer
uh because of the facts because of the
facts that we're going to be examining
later in the broadcast
harrelson said during his seven days of
testimony that quote
rogue elements of the us government
killed judge wood
he elaborated at the press conference
saying the dea
killed wood to keep him from revealing
that quote 95 percent
of the drugs brought in this country are
imported by the dea
haralson for the first time brought up
the name of el paso texas lawyer lee
chagra
elder brother jimmy chagra whose trial
is pending on charges he hired harrelson
to kill wood
lee chagra was killed in his office in
december 1978 in an apparent lot robbery
two soldiers later were convicted of the
slaying quote
i believe lee shagra had transmitted
information to judge wood
that would have blown the lid off the
dea unquote
harrelson said so of course lee shag
were also apparently a a question mark
to add on to the death list
but more significantly for our purposes
and for the broadcast we're looking at
tonight the allegations by charles
harrelson
who has made in the course of the uh of
our examining this case has made
two very uh seemingly outrageous
and sweeping um allegations one that he
was in fact one of the assassins of john
f kennedy
which of course flies in the face of of
uh the conventional
uh government wisdom although as polls
will tell you not in the face of the
wisdom of most people who are
you know pretty willing to believe that
there was some kind of conspiracy
involved in the
assassination excuse me or as we
indicated in the guns of november the
laws of physics will also impel you in
the same general direction
not to mention the final uh the final
however much flawed it might be
a judgment of the house select committee
on assassinations who also said it was
probably
an assassination not a conspiracy excuse
me now again uh
not only that but they they identified
david ferry who was the chief object of
jim garrison's investigation
as the probable conspirator and
recommended to the justice department
that they begin investigation not only
a ferry situation but in particular his
relationship with carlos marcello
and the anti-castro cubans used by the
cia in the bay of pigs
and in particular the anti-castro cubans
are going to figure front and center in
our broadcast this evening
but again bearing in mind as nip
indicated the the allegations
by charles harrelson because they're
going to dovetail very very neatly with
a lot of information that we're going to
be presenting
on the rest of the broadcast that's
right so we have one very we have the
first very wild
seemingly wild allegation that harrelson
not lee harvey oswald
was part of the assassination hit team
that killed john f kennedy and we have a
second allegation
that the rogue elements of the us
government killed judge john wood and
they did it because wood had information
about the dea bringing in harrelson's
words
95 percent of the drugs in the country
two seemingly wild
allegations and uh well we've examined
the kennedy assassination in the past
those of you who have
been with us for those know about how
wild those kind of allegations sound
uh or how how very not wild they sound
in light of the
the actual evidence and uh by the end of
the broadcast tonight perhaps
some of uh mr harrelson's allegations
about the dea
will be uh looked at in a slightly
different light as well
however all of that is going to happen
after we take a break and give you all a
chance to get up and stretch since we've
been a long first segment of the
broadcast tonight
so don't go away dave emery myself nip
tuck have lots more stuff
that we want to share with you and it's
going to be an interesting show
don't go away we'll have more of radio
free america in just a few minutes after
this musical break
right here on kfjc
station or something like that that you
let us know so we know where they're
going to but other than that if you just
want to share them with some friends
send copies to somebody to uh
your grandmother your aunt minnie your
congressman uh you know your best friend
your worst enemy who might need to be
depressed a little bit about the state
of the union or something
that's fine with us that's all we ask so
yeah again if people want to play them
on other stations that's fine so far
uh they're being played in in parter and
hole on
at least five stations that we know of
including this one so it's fun
as long as you check with us first uh we
don't want them used for
comedy as a recent station did so uh
check it out first indeed and i should
also just mention again that we're going
to be here until 11 o'clock tonight
um this is not a phone in broadcast so
if you're only waiting around the phone
and ask questions that will probably not
happen
but if you've got a question to ask we
do of course have our regular broadcasts
on sunday
that run from uh eight o'clock until
eleven o'clock where we do take phone
calls and where we cover these kinds of
things
except we usually have four or five or
six or eight or twelve topics
during a given broadcast so just uh to
let you know again real quickly we've
been talking about the company
we've been talking about the company
with the focus initially in the first
part of the broadcast being on the death
of judge john wood of san antonio
uh the first federal judge ever to be uh
murdered
and at least as far as we know the first
judge to be murdered
uh he was apparently murdered because of
his work in some uh as a judge on some
drug smuggling cases
a man named jimmy chagra professional
gambler who was already doing time for
drug offenses
was acquitted although the man that he
reputedly hired
to perform the case was not acquitted
and was found guilty a man named charles
v harrelson
charles v harrison also had some other
interesting things to say we talked
about
some of his connections into the dallas
underworld in the world uh the milieu
that uh produced
some of the people involved in the
kenny's kennedy assassination which was
significant for a variety of reasons
first off being that harrelson himself
said that he had been a member of the
kennedy assassination team
and secondly because harrelson said that
the reason john would have been killed
it had not been by him
it had been by the government and it was
because john wood had been in possession
of information about how
vastly involved the dea the drug
enforcement agency was
with the importation of drugs into this
country
so uh the the affiliation of john
harrelson with
a lot of the milieu of the kennedy
assassination most notably including
certain aspects of organized crime
people like santos trafficante and
carlos marcello
and with the cuban exile community will
be highly significant as we move into
the the drug and intelligence trade for
this evening in earnest
and the only other thing to remember is
remember folks this is not old news this
is exactly what the allegations are of
what's going on right now in nicaragua
and indeed as we mentioned ed wilson
ties into the quote company
because of his involvement with the
theft of weapons from china lake which
is where the
quote companies weapons came from and uh
because ed wilson and his mill you are
all involved with the iran
contra scam as well so this is as as
real and as fresh as this morning's
papers
tomorrow morning's papers now we're
going to pick up basically where we left
off at the end of this of the discussion
of the assassination of judge john wood
by quote
the company an arms for drug smuggling
ring which appears to have
uh certain connections to the u.s
intelligence community certainly
involves many of the same elements there
was an article in
a an underground paper a now defunct
underground paper called the soho news
in new york which
maintained that there were some links
between the company quote unquote in the
new gen hand bank
unfortunately that too is buried
somewhere deep in our archives we don't
have that
uh on tape regrettably but bear in mind
charles harrelson's statement that
renegade or rogue u.s agents had
judge john wood assassinated because he
had information that would have proved
that the drug enforcement administration
imported 95 percent
of the drugs into this country and as
nip indicated
with the current administration making a
very
uh public show of their
alleged drug enforcement uh policies and
with uh
anywhere people ranging from in train
engineers to airplane pilots to
professional athletes
having to undergo and amateur athletes
as well having to go rigorous drug
testing
that's a possibility that's worth
thinking about
now the role of the drug enforcement
administration
as a drug enforcement agency rather as
a an adjunct to the cia and
as a major element in the narcotics
traffic itself is going to be the focus
of our broadcast this evening we're
going to begin by taking up a book that
is going to
provide the information for the bulk of
our broad the rest of our broadcast
and specifically we're going to take up
with a section of that book that we had
dealt with at the end
of our last program radio free america
number 25.
the book is called the great heroin coup
subtitled drugs intelligence and
international fascism
it's authored by freelance danish
journalist henrik kruger k-r-u-g-e-r
published in soft cover by the south end
press copyrighted 1980 and with an
excellent forward by berkeley researcher
peter dale scott
in a chapter that we read from last time
called appropriately enough guns for
drugs
detailing the inner relationship between
the activities of robert vesco
mitchell werbel the late u.s
intelligence agent and uh
special operations specialist and santos
trafficante
the aforementioned mafioso and
associate of u.s intelligence agency who
may very well have had a role in the
assassination of president kennedy
now as we looked at in at the conclusion
of our broadcast last week
last time i should say radio free
america number 25
author jim hogan put forth a scenario
whereby robert vesco santos tropicante
and mitch werbel
were going to use the profits from the
narcotics traffic to among other things
help finance the production of machine
guns
in latin america and in turn use those
machine guns and the drug profits to
finance anti-communist death squads and
terror groups
in latin america we're going to pick up
with a section
of the article of that chapter that we
dealt with last time
and specifically this is going to deal
with some information
implicating the dea once again in not
only the narcotics traffic but in
harassing and threatening to murder
people who were exposing
their involvement or alleged involvement
in the narcotics traffic
reading now from the chapter guns for
drugs from the great heroin group by
henrik kruger
ios here by the way is investors
overseas services
a company that robert vesco ran in
partnership with a fellow named bernard
kornfeld
the fugitive ios billionaire vesco
employed a large contingent of cuban
exiles in his costa rica sanctuary
moreover his weapons negotiations
coincided with the efforts of the
fanatic anti-castro cuban leader orlando
bosch bosch
to assemble cuban exile groups into an
army of terror
kuru coru that would later carry out
assassinations and other dirty work for
several latin american regimes
during bosch's 1974 and 75 drive
a wave of murder struck miami's cuban
exile haven
most victims had been opposed to bosch
with the obstacles to his plan removed
kuru was established in june of 1976.
while vesco and werbel were hatching
their weapons deal bosh's base of
operation
just happened to be vesco's kingdom of
costa rica
and mafia heroin boss santos trafficante
junior
was also reportedly there between
january of 1974 and the summer of 1975.
journalist jim hogan speculates in his
book spooks that the three might have
joined forces in a cia conspiracy to
escalate
anti-communist terror in latin america
in 1973 some of the details began to
surface in a series of scandals linking
these individuals
dea undercover agent frank perroff
charged vesco with financing extensive
heroin smuggling
for his initiative perov was fired
summarily and his life was threatened
before the senate investigation
subcommittee could probe deeply the case
was squelched through the intervention
of the white house
the oval office had already helped vesco
a friend of the nixon family
in his run-in with the securities and
exchange commission which had sought his
prosecution for the trail of the swindle
he had left in the world of
international finance
midway through the subcommittee
investigation of the heroin charges
the dea announced the disappearance of
its vesco file
by the way you can read about the
misadventures of frank peroff in a book
called pair off by h.l whittemore
that's an excellent book and i recommend
it to anyone who would like to
investigate it once again here we have
allegations and uh
allegations which at least
circumstantially appear to be true of
the dea's
collaboration with drug smugglers and of
course that's exactly
what charles harrelson was charging
indeed and before i go on to the next
segment um
was this uh was this the time when uh
william casey was involved with the
securities and exchange commission the
time of this
he was ahead of it at this time that's
rather interesting he's of course now
the head of the central intelligence
agency although i don't know when it
remains to be seen how much of a head he
has left after his alleged brain cancer
indeed what we're going to be dealing
with now for the rest of the broadcast
is a scenario developed
by journalist henrik kruger whereby the
drug enforcement administration and
specifically
a an alleged anti-drug dealer
assassination team put together of
alleged
former cia agents well basically uh
kruger is suggesting
that rather than seeking to eliminate
the drug traffic through this wave
of assassinations they were seeking to
eliminate the corsican mod the corsican
syndicate the union course
competition to the sicilian and
lansky syndicate uh heroin traffic now
what basically kruger is maintaining is
that richard nixon with
his many documented ties not only to the
lansky and sicilian organized crime
syndicates but also to the narcotics
traffic and we took a look at his
setting up
his lobbying as a lawyer for pepsicola
and establishment of a pepsi plant which
turned out to be one of the largest
heroin refineries in southeast asia we
looked at that in rfa number 24
but richard nixon's connections to
organized crime are a matter of public
record and they are deep
and they are extensive and uh by way of
looking at our discussion this evening
and uh by way of introducing our
discussion i should say and taking a
look
at kruger's thesis that in fact the
white house
and dea assassination teams were used to
corral the narcotics traffic not to
suppress it
we're going to begin by taking a look at
richard nixon's connections to organized
crime
and some of the organized crime and
intelligence elements that figure so
prominently
in our story this evening and throughout
the course of our investigation into
the involvement of the intelligence
services in the narcotics topic
reading further from henry krueger's
great heroin coup
richard nixon's connections to the
syndicate and its stooges
are a matter of record the only question
is when they began
some say it was nineteen forty six when
nixon ran for congress in california
and h murray chattner i n e
r a top syndicate defense attorney ran
his campaign with support from the
gangster
mickey cohen others placed the nixon
underworld wedding as early as 1943
when nixon was working in the office of
price administration
at a desk responsible for controlling
the market in rubber goods
there he allegedly met his future pals
george quote
the senator from cuba smathers and the
cuban-american bb rebozo
who later struck it rich in real estate
the two were then small time smathers a
lawyer for a syndicate front
smuggling auto tires from cuba rebozo
the owner of a gas station
that sold the tires the florida clique
was a happy family
nixon liked to take fishing jaunts with
the likes of rebozo
meyer lansky's associate tatum chubby
wofford
and richard danner who would later
manage the sands casino in las vegas for
howard hughes
he also got to know people even closer
to the syndicate who had extensive
interests in cuba
in 1952 one short month after the
dictator batista's comeback
nixon and danner joined throngs of
tourists who unloaded their savings at
one of the syndicates cuban casinos
nixon would return frequently he
rebozo and smathers allegedly invested
in the island during the 1950s
and in 1955 as vice president of the
united states
nixon would pin an award on batista with
whom he was photographed in the
dictator's palace
nixon also helped plan the bay of pigs
invasion in 1959
chairing the 5412 group a national
security council subcommittee in charge
of covert actions
the vice president pushed for the plan's
approval before his 1960 presidential
race against john f kennedy
according to howard hunt nixon was the
invasion's quote
secret action officer in the white house
president eisenhower who would later
plead ignorance of the plan's extent
assumed it was limited to support for
anti-castro gorillas in the mountains
when jfk took over the oval office he
was presented with a fatac home plea
if eisenhower was really left out in the
cold under the plan's magnitude
then william pauly must have been among
nixon's co-conspirators
as mentioned earlier paulie talked
eisenhower into arming the
anti-communist cubans
paulie spelled p-a-w-l-e-y was
and would remain one of nixon's most
ardent supporters
when the invasion proved a bust nixon's
voice was among the loudest accusing
kennedy of undermining it
by refusing reinforcements in the years
that
followed he continued to cultivate
support among the cuban exiles
and other right-wing constituencies
cubans for nixon
and asians for nixon touted him as a man
who would not forsake the cause of
anti-communism
the nixon of near hysterical
anti-communism would win additional
allies in the syndicate
and in the powerful business circles
tied in with the military
and espionage fortunately for nixon
forces beyond behind the above lobbies
were also influential in organized labor
especially the teamsters union teamster
boss
jimmy hoffa became a pawn of the lansky
syndicate
which borrowed millions from the union's
pension fund
however hoffa's obsequiousness towards
the mob was dampened by attorney general
robert kennedy's aggressive
investigation of teamster policies
in 1967 prior to nixon's decisive
electoral campaign
hoffa landed in jail with a 13-year
sentence for misuse of
of union funds the new teamster
strongmen
frank fitzsimmons and anthony tony pro
provenzano
were friends of nixon and in the hands
of the syndicate
when nixon pardoned hoffa just prior to
christmas 1971
hoffa had to promise to stay out of
organized labor
in the 60s nixon grew even closer to his
friends in miami
who by then had made millions in land
speculation
dade county north of miami became known
as
lanskyville as a string of seemingly
legitimate real estate firms
handled the lansky mob's enormous
holdings among the more prominent firms
were the following the cape florida
development company run by donald berg
berg
and nixon's pal robozo the two worked
closely with al
polizzi p-o-l-i-z-i the former head of
the syndicates mayfield road gang in
cleveland
then in charge of the syndicate's
florida contractors
an investigation into the placement of
stolen securities at rebozo's bank was
nipped in the bud
the mary carter paint company which in
1967 became resorts international
that now runs the world's most
profitable casino in atlantic city new
jersey and was
purportedly the brainchild of mr lansky
resort's paradise island casino in the
bahamas was managed by ed
cellini c-e-l-i-n-i a long-time lansky
casino operator
the general development corporation run
by two lansky straw men
wallace groves and lou chesler
c-h-e-s-l-e-r
its board board of directors included
lansky broker max
orowitz o-r-o-v-i-t-z and the gangster
trigger mike coppola
groves bought up half of grand bahama
island for the syndicate
and contracted with nixon's law law
client national bulk carriers to
construct a harbor there
the major realty company whose
controlling shareholders were senator
smathers and lansky's man orovitz
and ben siegelbaum through his friends
nixon acquired land on key biscayne
and fisher's island off the florida
coast in return
he readily made himself available for
personal appearances
when mary carter in 1967 opened the
nassau bay club casino on grand bahama
island
nixon was the guest of honor one year
later he was there when resorts
international opened its casino on
paradise island
nixon also expressed his friendship in
other ways
hoffa was not the only one who did not
have to pay his full debt to
society neither did leonard burstin be
ursten
carl covens k-o-v-e-n-s or morris
shanker
s-h-e-n-k-e-r all syndicate associates
the last two solid nixon campaign
supporters
robert morgenthau the federal attorney
for the southern district of new york
became interested in some of nixon's
friends in nineteen sixty eight
he proved mac max orovitz guilty of
willful violation of stock registration
laws
and was investigating syndicate money
transfers to switzerland
the latter threatened to lead to an
indictment of nixon's friend
john m king of investors overseas
services
morgenthau however was removed from
office
continuing with the great heroin coup
glancing at major contributors to
nixon's 1978
and 1972 campaign chess one finds the
names of miami straw men lou
chesler and richard pistel p-i-s-t-e-l-l
resorts president james crosby and john
m king the texas billionaire howard
hughes
master swindler robert vesco and the
california millionaire
c arnold smith a close associated the
gangster john alessio and later
convicted of misuse
of bank funds the list of nixon's major
personal and political supporters starts
with rebozo
smathers dewey hoffa and frank
fitzsimmons
all with their syndicate associations
and goes on to include
william pauley and the china lobby's man
madam anna chan
chennault nearly all of nixon's major
supporters in florida were involved in
one way or another in the bay of pig's
operation
the same can be said of the top
syndicate figures four of whom escorted
the invasion force in a yacht
for part of the voyage while
trafficante's lieutenants in miami
and the dominican republic stood ready
to seize the casinos
uh let me just pop in here real quickly
that's of course santos trophicante who
we've been talking about earlier
um the florida uh the florida mafia
chieftain
moreover one cannot overlook nixon's
particular connection to ios
multi-millionaire vesco who until
recently was in exile in costa rica
where he allegedly financed the
smuggling of narcotics
vesco provided covert financial aid to
nixon's re-election campaign
and was closely associated with nixon's
brother edward
and nephew donald jr richard nixon
himself is alleged to have met secretly
with vesco in salzburg austria
the white house finally came to vesco's
aid in a case brought against him by the
securities and exchange commission
just as an investigation of his
narcotics activities was similarly
choked off okay so in this long segment
we've got a lot of stuff the basic thing
we're talking about here although again
you will notice that some of these
people are still players today whether
if they are the organizations the
traffic on the organization others still
in existence
or as we mentioned earlier here the
securities and exchange commission
investigation uh
choked off by orders of the white house
into into uh vesco's illegal dealings of
course
and as we mentioned a moment ago william
casey was head of the securities and
exchange commission at that time
and of course now among other things he
is the head of the cia the putative head
at this point
now the main thing here that we're
noticing though is the the fact that it
looks like very early on in his
administration or
in his career rather that richard nixon
was in effect tapped on the shoulder
by the lansky mob and other uh
other syndicate figures and was told
you're our boy dick
just in the way that george smathers
became the senator from
cuba and had massive help in becoming a
florida senator from
the florida syndicate richard nixon
all throughout his career had key help
financial and otherwise
from the mob the landscape mob among
others and you can see going back to at
least 1946 if not 1943
when he was uh uh just a guy playing
poker
um in the navy now again the
involvement of richard nixon throughout
his political career with
organized crime elements and in
particular with the anti-castro cuban
exile community is worth noting also by
the way
his connections to the china lobby and
its powerful narcotics connections we
discussed
the bay of pigs in a number of
broadcasts of course in our radio free
america shows
uh our guns of november shows rather
numbers one
and two in particular we talked about uh
some of the anti-castro cubans and their
relationship to the bay of pigs
it's also worth noting too that uh in
radio free america number 12 we went
into the what we call the cuban fry core
at great length we talked about the
whole bay of pigs in operation 40
at considerable length there once again
the anti-castro cubans from the bay of
pigs have been front and center
in the recent iran conjugate that we are
going to be covering at some point
in the not too distant future in a radio
free america series and again narcotics
trafficking is front and center
in the background of or not in the
background in the foreground
of that case as well we uh took a look
at uh richard nixon and
his connections again to uh the bay of
pigs
and uh the and us intelligence apparat
in relation to the bay of pigs and
that's
that and the nixon's landscape
connections and also again the china
lobby connections
are worth noting here because what we're
going to be examining is kruger's thesis
that basically the federal intelligence
apparatus
and the drug enforcement apparat were
used by the nixon white house
to corral the international heroin
traffic
for nixon's mob and anti-castro cuban
buddies
and that of course is consistent
with the allegations made not only by
charles harrelson
but also by lh whitmore and former dea
agent frank peroff that in fact
the dea is involved in the narcotics
traffic
not in helping to suppress the narcotics
and again it cannot be stressed too
strongly now we we have examined uh
fairly recently and we'll be examining
in some depth tonight some of the
involvement with the
uh the the anti-castro cubans and their
involvement in the milieu and then
the same circles that they run and we'll
be looking at in later broadcasts
radio free america broadcast on the
subject as we begin to get into klaus
barbies
uh coca fascista network and others
running up out of latin america
but since we haven't discussed it in
depth tonight
we might want to go back real quickly
and look at the the china lobby
for those not familiar with those just
to briefly reiterate a couple of things
the china lobby of course has become a
is a slang term for the group of people
who were either
uh literally supporters of chiang
kai-shek in china at the time that the
the
chiang kai-shek government always
suspect at the best of times crumbled
utterly
uh during the chinese revolution and
they were forced out and wound up in
taiwan
but uh besides that there was also a
large american contingent of supporters
of chiang kai-shek and we've talked at
that about it at some great length and
out of the american supporters of chiang
kai-shek sprang such things as the john
birch society
and uh and uh the
anna chennault mentioned here was the
wife of general claire chennault
a us army air corps who was himself a
a good buddy and confidant of chiang
kai-shek now
at the time that the chiang kai-shek
government fell large quantities of his
soldiers fled
across the border of china into various
southeast asian countries
and it was it was at the time that they
were a rogue army on the loose in
southeast
in southeast asia that the next
connection uh between
chiang kai-shek and the china lobby and
the drug trade come into effect
well yeah it's worth noting that chiang
kai-shek had been heavily involved with
the narcotics traffic
through a fellow by the name of general
tai li tai li in turn
who was described sort of as chiang
kai-shek's himmler he basically was
himmler's
or him chiang kai-shek's intelligence
and internal security chief
the bulk of his organization was
provided by a
shanghai narcotics and organized crime
syndicate called the green
gang headed by a man named to ushing so
that in in essence chiang kai-shek's
national security apparatus was
inseparable
from the narcotics traffic in that part
of the world and in the united states
the china lobby here became heavily
involved through
people like uh general albert wedemeyer
and others with
chiang kai-shek now in southeast asia
the china lobby uh not only in the
golden triangle through the uh cuomin
tang
but also eventually through uh
representatives of the china lobby that
got involved
uh that that participated pivotally in
the u.s involvement in vietnam
helped to bring the narcotics into the
united states again in radio free
america number 24
we covered the evolution of the
narcotics traffic in southeast asia at
great length
and the pivotal involvement of the
central intelligence agency into it
in it rather now it's worth noting also
that as we looked at in radio free
america number 24
the growth not only of the sicilian mobs
and
the american syndicates involvement in
narcotics traffic but also that of the
corsican syndicate themselves the union
courts
were dire were spurred greatly by the
central intelligence agency which used
both organizations
excuse me as an anti-castro cadre a
anti-communist cadre
in that part of the world so that the
original involvement of people like
lucky luciano
and the various corsican gangsters so
some of whom we're going to look at in
our next radio free america stems
directly from their
uh their role as anti-caster
anti-communist guerrillas for the
central intelligence agency but the
china lobby
and uh their minions in vietnam and the
kuomintang involvement
in burma in thailand in the so-called
golden triangle
and the long-standing involvement of
chiang kai-shek's forces
in the narcotics traffic are front and
center here one of the things we looked
at in radio free america number 12
the third of our area nation series was
the evolution of elements of the china
lobby into the cuba lobby
the aforementioned william pauley
mentioned in the chapter we just read
was a key figure uh who was involved
with the china lobby
and then became one of the most
vociferous advocates of operation 40
the series of guerrilla raids carried
out by the central intelligence agency
against
fidel castro it's worth noting too that
we took a look at the
involvement of members of the china
lobby with
the the aryan nations
uh milieu that we looked at in our aryan
nations series we took a look at uh
claire chennault's american volunteer
group and how their name was adopted
by a proposed assassination squad run by
nelson bunker hunt
are financed by nelson bunker hunt in
texas and elsewhere
so the the china lobby is inseparable
from the things that we're looking at
here and
in turn elements of the china lobby one
of the things we looked at in radio free
america number 11
was the involvement of china lobby
figures in the assassination of
president kennedy
so again the the kennedy assassination
is one of the things which looms very
very large in the background of what
we're talking about
elements of the china lobby and in turn
uh the china lobby's evolution from the
macarthur group that we looked at
the involvement of anti-castro cubans
the involvement of many of the members
of the syndicates such as santos
trafficante
carlos marcello and others or probable
involvement in the kennedy assassination
should not be overlooked here
uh one of the things that we should uh
stress
perhaps it with regard to the material
that we're reading from henry kruger
we're going to try and spell as many of
the names for you as we can because
uh some listeners have expressed
confusion about how some of the names
were
spelled but beyond that the we're not
going to be able to go over every detail
to put it mildly in these chapters
kruger is a very very
dense writer there an awful lot of names
and events that are going to crop
up here we are just not going to be in a
position to stop and analyze every
single one
so bear with us as best you can because
krueger's
the the pace he sets here is unmerciful
and you're going to hear an awful lot of
names and we're not going to just not
going to be able to go over every one of
them in the detail that we might like
so we're going to proceed now with the
establishment
by the nixon white house of
a basically an assassination squad which
eventually came
under not only the negative supervision
of the nixon white house but also the
dea
that uh was initially or allegedly
supposed to eliminate
our major narcotics traffickers in fact
it appears that what it was used to do
was to eliminate
the competition of nixon's uh organized
crime and intelligence associates for
control of the narcotics traffic we're
going to take a look at
kruger's thesis that that is in fact
what they were doing in a little bit
returning again to henrik krueger is the
great heroin [ __ ] in a chapter called
white house hanky panky never had
richard nixon's white house staff been
so preoccupied with narcotics matters
as in the summer of 1971. they were
obsessed with two projects
a new white house intelligence and
enforcement unit as envisioned by the
houston plan
and a comprehensive narcotics control
apparatus similarly under direct
presidential control
the two ide fixes converged in a
conspiratorial and political criminal
network of hitherto
unimagined dimensions that summer the
white house set up the special action
office for drug abuse prevention
alongside the special investigation unit
otherwise known as the plumbers
several of the plumbers also worked on
narcotics affairs
the group's key figures included eagle
crow krogh
chief plumber who followed john
ehrlichman for whose law firm he had
worked part-time to the white house in
within months of his graduation from the
university of washington law school
he was named deputy assistant to the
president for law enforcement
and within three years found himself in
charge of both nixon's narcotics and law
enforcement campaign
and of the plumbers squad
his single-minded ambition surfaced in a
declaration to the noted psychiatrist
and narcotics expert
dr donald daniel s friedman when the
latter refused to support one of crow's
programs
quote well don't worry anyone who
opposes us will destroy
as a matter of fact anyone who doesn't
support us will destroy
crow would wind up in jail for the
break-in at the office of daniel
ellsberg's psychiatrist
dr lewis fielding walter minnick
m-i-n-n-i-c-k temporary plumber a young
graduate of harvard business school and
a former agent of the cia
who joined the crow's narcotics staff in
the spring of 1971
and later helped draft the
reorganization plan that created the dea
john caulfield plummer a former agent of
the new york city police department's
bureau of special services
which specialized in narcotics and quote
monitoring the activities of terrorist
organizations
unquote in the 1960 presidential
campaign
he had been assigned to protect
candidate nixon in new york city
that and his close relationship with
nixon's personal secretary rosemary
woods
of 18 and one half minute tape gap fame
gained him a foot in the door of the
white house
miles ambrose the former customs
commissioner who was named head of the
narcotics campaign's domestic strike
force
he would later leave government service
in disgrace
i would interrupt here that miles
ambrose also represented
the rajneesh puram organization in their
recent difficulties and uh a program
about rajneesh param that a
regular one step beyond program is on
permanent file at davcore if you'd like
to look at it
or listen to it i should say
continuing with krueger's account here
and many of the people whose involvement
both
that he names as being involved both
with narcotics enforcement and with
nixon's plumbers unit
that was the group which affected the
watergate break-in and precipitated the
watergate situation
or at least the that aspect of it which
appeared on the surface to the general
public
g gordon liddy plummer a former fbi
agent whose narcotics intelligence job
at the treasury department had been
terminated only weeks prior to his
recruitment by the white house for his
outspoken lobbying against gun control
legislation
eventually he would get six to twenty
for his role in the break-in at the
watergate complex
and one to three for the job at
fielding's office
howard hunt plummer a former cia agent
closely connected to the agency trained
cuban exiles
many of whom had emerged from santo
trafficante's cuban narcotics mafia
hunt was employed as a special advisor
on narcotics problems in southeast asia
in november of 1973 judge john cerrika
would sentence him to two and a half to
eight years
reduced from an initial 35 for the
watergate break-in
lucian conin c-o-n-e-i-n a cia agent ed
lansdale's right-hand man in vietnam
and an expert on southeast asian
narcotics centers in the corsican mafia
he was brought into the white house by
his old buddy hunt
david young a plumber a young lawyer who
put up a sign outside his office
mr young plumber when a prize that he
would be plugging leaks and that the
trade had run in his family
he came to crow's staff from henry
kissinger's national security council
and i would just say that broadcasting
from foothill college this is kfjc los
altos hills
continuing with a great heroin coup it
was a strange
mix of novices and experienced agents
with the most intriguing pasts
hunt and liddy were located in room 16
of the executive office building
headquarters for the plumbers groups
secret narcotics missions and other
crooked operations on behalf of the
committee to re-elect the president
also known as creep the plumber's first
assignment was the break-in at the
office of daniel ellsberg's psychiatrist
for the break-in dirty work hunt
enlisted bernard barker
eugenio rolando martinez and felipe de
diego three of his cuban friends who had
been involved in the bay of pigs
invasion
martinez and de diego also took part in
the cia's follow-up
operation 40 and the ubiquitous martinez
was in on traffic hunting masterminded
boat raids on
cuba by the summer of 1971 the white
house death squad was well on its way
hunt sought out barker in miami for what
hunt called a quote new
national security organization above the
cia
and fbi barker would assemble a force of
cia trained exiles for operation diamond
which under cover of narcotics
enforcement would kidnap or
assassinate political enemies barker
signed up
in the fall of 1971 hunt asked another
one of his cuban friends
bay of pig's veteran manuel artime
spelled a-r-t-i-m-e
to set up quote hit teams for the
liquidation of narcotics dealers
as later revealed our teammate's primary
target
was to have been the panamanian
strongman general omar torrijos
and his staff meanwhile tightened their
grip on narcotics control
after the bnd takeover that's by the way
is the bureau of narcotics and dangerous
drugs
after the bnd takeover of customs
international jurisdiction
crow pushed bureau chief john ingersoll
for results to feed congress and the
press
in september 1971 crowe was named to
direct the newly formed cabinet
committee on international narcotics
control
in collaboration with the state
department bnd
cia and henry kissinger's office
the committee coordinated the
international struggle against narcotics
state department narcotics advisor
nelson gross
chosen to supervise the joint actions
was later sentenced to two years
for attempted bribery and income tax
evasion
eagle crow was less than satisfied with
existing narcotics efforts
especially those of the c i a whose
intelligence reports according to
ingersoll were decisive for the work of
the bnd
crow wanted the white house instead to
handle the bnd's intelligence work
nixon's staff would then decide which
drug traffickers to pursue
crow's dissatisfaction was expressed to
hunt
who immediately proposed an office of
national narcotics intelligence
onni where all narcotics intelligence
reports would be analyzed and follow-up
actions decided
hunt told crow he could enlist for the
office experienced
cia figures starting with lucy and conan
at its head
nixon however chose william c sullivan
instead
once second to j edgar hoover in the fbi
sullivan had managed division
five which investigated espionage
sabotage and subversion
he also directed operation cointelpro
the bureau's vendetta
against dissident political and cultural
groups such as the black panthers
and had been nixon's choice to direct
the houston plans elaborate surveillance
of u.s citizens
excuse me houston this case spelled
h-u-s-t-o-n
hunt nevertheless found a niche for his
friend conan was assigned to the bnd as
a quote strategic intelligence officer
and came to control overseas narcotics
intelligence originally the domain
of o-n-n-i while sullivan um
excuse me well concentrated on domestic
affairs
uh incidentally the houston plan was an
abortive plan developed by the nixon
white house
in which all u.s intelligence activities
would be
combined into a single giant us
intelligence agency rather than the
various different agencies that we have
now such as the national security agency
the defense intelligence agency cia and
others
continuing with the great heroin coup
the white house now controlled narcotics
intelligence at home
and abroad but that still wasn't enough
nixon's staff also sought to control
enforcement itself
and that required effective strike
forces in january of 1972 the white
house set up the office for drug abuse
law enforcement
o-d-a-l-e according to a plan conceived
by gordon liddy
it became the domestic strike force
under miles ambrose
whose government career ended with news
of his pleasure trip to the ranch of a
texan indicted for narcotics and gun
running
odle soon became notorious for its
record of illegal raids
no knock entries into private homes and
beatings of innocent people
some called it the american gestapo
overseas as well the white house was
dissatisfied with the bnd's enforcement
powers
dr j thomas unger leader u n g e r
l e i d e r a member of the national
commission on marijuana and drug abuse
noted in a record of his conversations
with bnd officials quote
there was some to some talk about
establishing hit squads assassination
teams
as they are said to have in a south
american country i'm going to read that
sentence again
there was some talk about establishing
hit squads assassination teams
as they are said to have in a south
american country
it was stated that with 150 key
assassinations
the entire heroin refining operation can
be thrown into chaos
officials say it is it is known exactly
who is involved in these operations
but can't prove it hunt liddy and others
in room 16
did not confine themselves to narcotics
campaigns and political assassinations
on behalf of creep that's the committee
to reelect the president
they raised campaign funds from more or
less shady sources
and sabotage the campaigns of george
wallace hubert humphrey
edmund muskie and george mcgovern hunt's
cia
colleagues are among those who suspect
he spiked musky's lemonade with an
lsd-like substance
prior to the candidate's famous tearful
speech
besides hunt's cubans the familiar frank
sturgis who had earlier taken orders
from santo travicante
took on narcotics work and special
assignments for creep
according to a 1972 fbi report sources
in miami had claimed sturgis was then
associated with organized crime
activities
he later told an interviewer that he had
aided hunt in a 1971 investigation of
the drug traffic reaching the u.s from
paraguay
via panama he was in on several actions
connected with the investigation
which focused exclusively on august
records grupo francais
interrupting augusta core is a corsican
gangster nazi collaborator who ran a
very very important drug smuggling ring
we're going to talk about that in our
next broadcast
sturgis was everywhere in the hectic
spring of 1972.
in may he was among the men who
assaulted daniel ellsberg on the steps
of the capital
later that month he and cubans including
bernard barker arranged a miami
demonstration in support of nixon's
decision to mine high fong harbor
sturgis himself was at the wheel of the
truck leading the procession
he helped recruit agitators to disrupt
the democratic national convention
and in the june 17th watergate break-in
sturgis joined cia trafficante cubans
and white house narcotics conspirators
as the noted as the noted berkeley
researcher peter dale scott put it in
1973 quote
in my opinion it is no coincidence that
the key figures in watergate
liddy hunt sturgis crow and caulfield
had been drawn from the conspiratorial
world of government narcotics
enforcement
a shady realm in which operations of
organized crime
counter revolution and government
intelligence have traditionally
overlapped
gonna try again continuing with henrik
krueger's great heroin coup
in july 1973 nixon's narcotic forces
were essentially consolidated
according to reorganization plan number
two worked out by former cia agent
walter minnick
remember that's m i m-i-n-n-i-c-k and
angel crow
the drug enforcement administration dea
was formed out of the bnd the o-d-a-l-e
o-n-n-i and customs intelligence four
thousand operatives including fifty c
i a agents many of them cubans from the
o d a l
e hardcore five hundred customs agents
and most of the bnd
staff made the dea a powerful new agency
ingersoll of the bmdd ambrose of odale
and sullivan of the onni all resigned
as john r bartles b-a-r-t-e-l-s
became the dea's first director his was
no
small task earlier rivalries persisted
a strange brew of agents with widely
varying backgrounds and assignments made
the dea difficult if not impossible
to steer u s narcotics enforcement has a
history of corruption
scandal and exposure of asian
collaboration with the criminals that
has been assigned to police
still no bureau has been as plagued by
scandal as the dea has
in seven years of existence of course
this was written in 1979
let me read that one more time still no
bureau has been as plagued by scandal as
the dea has in seven years of existence
the exposes and charges run the gamut
from trafficking and drugs
teamwork with the mob and protection of
major traffickers
to thievery gun running torture and
assassination of drug traffickers
when lucy and conan became the head of
the dea special operations branch
he allegedly carried out an
assassination program
after setting up the dea special
operations group d-e-a-s-o-g
under cover of the br fox company and
housed on connecticut avenue in
washington
dea sog's 12 members the dirty dozen
were hard and experienced latino cia
agents
transferred over the drug agency for the
occasion
prior to prior to dea sog
coneen had set up another dea quote
intelligence operation
deacon one employing cuban exile
veterans of cia training camps who were
supervised by 30 other cubans
all formerly of the cia's clandestine
services
in response to the claim that dea sog
was a quote hit team
conan told journalist george kryl quote
that is a big
blank lie that is bull blank
however a dea official had told kryl
quote when you get down to it coneen was
organizing an assassination program
he was frustrated by the big time
operators who were just too insulated to
get to
unquote dea officials also told kryl
that quote
meetings were held to decide whom to
target and what method of assassination
to employ
conean then assigned the task to three
of the former cia operatives assigned to
the connecticut avenue safe house
dsog shared its washington office with
an old friend and colleague of hunt and
konins from oss china
the weapons dealing soldier of fortune
and specialist and assassination
mitch werbel the third rebel told krill
he had been a
business partner of conan's as late as
and that he and conan had worked
together on providing the dea with
assassination devices
among rebels other associates were frank
sturgis cuban exile leaders and robert
vesco
who like rubell himself had been charged
with bankrolling narcotics smuggling
carlos hernandez rumble r-u-m-b-a-u-t
the bodyguard of vesco's close friend
and business partner former costa rican
president pepe figueres
f-i-g-u-e-r-e-s is a former conan agent
who fled the country to avoid
imprisonment on a drug conviction
he has reportedly re-entered the u.s
twice with the u.s diplomatic pass with
a u.s diplomatic passport
assassination it can be argued became a
modus operandi under richard nixon
the cia carried out assassination and
extermination campaigns in vietnam
guatemala argentina and brazil aided in
latin america by the local death squads
the white house appears to have
sponsored a secret assassination program
under cover of drug enforcement
i'm going to read that last sentence
again the white house appears to have
sponsored a secret assassination program
under cover of drug enforcement it was
continued by the dea which seemingly
overlapped with the cia
and political rather than drug
enforcement
until 1974 the training of torturers and
members of latin american death squads
came under the auspices of the cia
and usaid's office of public safety
some 100 000 brazilian policemen for
example
were trained and 523 of them were chosen
for courses in the usa
they were trained at the international
police academy in georgetown washington
dc
and at a secret at a secret cia center
in the same city on r street
under cover of international police
services incorporated
when school was out the prize pupils
returned home to work
besides cia advisors as functionaries
are torturers in such effective
repression apparatuses as sao paulo's
opera cow berrantes o p e r a c i u
b a n d e i d e i r a n t
e s many would moonlight with the death
squads
after tupamaro's gorillas kidnapped and
killed u s police adviser dan matrioni
in uruguay
washington school for funding for
foreign police came into the limelight
and congress cut off their funding
nonetheless the training program and
direct assistance and supervision
continued
a 1976 investig investigation authorized
by senator james alvarez
revealed that the u.s torture academies
had not in fact been completely closed
down according to jack anderson
aberrasque found such a school had been
in operation since 1974 in los fresnos
texas
at the site of a former bomb school
another journalist william hoffman
later confirmed the existence of a
school for torture in los fresnos
which had since moved to georgia where
it was known as the law enforcement
training center
interestingly conan's friend wherebell
runs his own large training center in
georgia
the farm it's used for among other
things
the training of law enforcement officers
continuing
much of the old police support apparatus
was simply transferred to aids
international narcotic control program
by the way aid is aid for international
development
aids international narcotics control
program
otherwise known as inc which really
spelled dea
in 1974 the dea had some 400 agents in
latin america or roughly the number of
advisors recalled from the o p s program
inc's budget for technical equipment
abroad meanwhile
jumped from 2.2 million in 1973 to 12.5
million
in 1974. the politics of the new drug
effort were exposed when
in 1974 the man behind argentina's death
squad
the argentine anti-communist alliance
socialist minute social minister
lopez rega that's jose lopez oregon
we've talked about him a lot last name
reggae rega
appeared on tv with u s ambassador
robert c hill
to publicize the two nations
anti-narcotics collaboration with the
words quote
guerrillas are the main users of drugs
in argentina that's of course g-u-e-r
gorillas guerrillas are the main users
of drugs in argentina therefore the
anti-drug campaign will automatically be
an anti-gorilla campaign as well
unquote it is striking how close the
various extermination and repression
campaigns have been to the narcotics
traffic
the mayo army deployed by the c i a in
laos
smuggled large quantities of opium
lopez rega and his argentine triple a
henchmen
were eventually exposed as keys to a
cocaine ring
one of the chief triple a hatchet men
francoise chiappe
was lieutenant or chiappe was a
lieutenant in the record
david heroin network um cutting in by
the way dave already mentioned august
record
and christian david was a an affiliate
of his who also had links to
various western intelligence agencies
notably france and united states
paraguay's most ruthless high-ranking
officers were exposed as heroin
profiteers
christian david took part in
extermination campaigns in argentina
brazil and uruguay oprah
banderante's chief sergio fleury and
several of his colleagues pocketed large
protection payoffs
fleury's number two man in the sao paulo
death squad adimar augusto de oliveira
elias finino fled to paraguay after he
was charged with murder
there under the name irinu bruno da
silva
he worked for the record gang um i'll
give you that guy's name real quickly
and spell them for you
um first is opera sao banderantes chief
sergio
fleury f-l-e-u-r-y-f-l-e
you are why flurries number two man in
the death squad in sao paulo was alemar
augusto de oliveira
elias finino i'll need to spell that for
you
um fled to paraguay they're under the
name irinu bruno
da silva he worked for the record gang
when david's successor the brazilian
narcotics dealer
milton concaldes thiago spelled
t-h-i-a-g-o
alias cabeza the brain was arrested in
nineteen seventy five
it was learned that he had been paying
off the entire rio de janeiro death
squad
which included four narcotics police
lieutenants
and finally as we go to press we learn
that the dictator pinochet
assumed control of chile's cocaine trade
then turned it over to his secret police
dina
dina which shared the profits with its
cuban exile henchmen
the political violence set in motion by
the white house narcotics offices ran
smoothly but what of actual drug
enforcement
from its inception it focused on
dismantling the french narcotics network
when that was done america would be free
of the heroin plague
or so said nixon and his staff reports
of increasing amounts of heroin from
southeast asia and mexico
were obscured by the great public
relations campaign on the struggle
against the corsicans
the turkey marseille u.s heroin pipeline
was indeed shut down
and the french corsican mafia was almost
totally decimated
but major new suppliers in southeast
asia and south america were left
untouched
despite warnings and reports and despite
the many c
i a experts unquote on the latin
american drug scene
not only were most major heroin
suppliers in the two regions left alone
they were protected and they were aided
by the arrest of small-time competitors
at home the story was nearly the same
odale
and dea nabbed only minor distributors
and sidewalk pushers
well that's a mighty uh long segment to
digest here
we're going to take a long musical break
so that people can rest since we've uh
rest their brains and we'll rest our
mouths and
poor nip can rest his slightly flu
ridden lungs and
then we're going to come back we're
going to recap some of what we've just
seen and we're going to look at kruger's
allegations and analysis of the great
heroin coup itself
don't go away dave emery myself nip tuck
and as they put my slightly flu ridden
lungs will return
with more of radio free america in just
a few moments right here
on kfjc
[Music]
uh
me
[Music]
and we are back this is niptuck with
dave emery in the studios at kfjc
uh going back to radio free america uh
we heard uh
the newport rebels and uh charles mingus
song mysterious blues
great song and after that there's a
specific reason why i played that
long coral piece those of you out there
who are classical music aficionados will
uh recognize the
get back to the stuff here we've got
lots more to talk about tonight we're
going to be continuing readings from the
great heroin coup
and we are going to be following up on
the subject of the heroin coup
itself which was the point at which the
nixon white house
and uh their special involvement in the
drug trade
uh how they in basically infiltrated the
uh
the the drug trade how they used the the
special white house team
the plumbers much of which also wound up
operating in the watergate case
to lapse over into uh into the founding
of the dea and in fact made the dea
a de facto uh murder and enforcement
unit and
the drug enforcement administration
enforcing almost in the sense of mafia
enforcers
to essentially rub out the old uh french
and turkish and uh
and uh corsican uh heroin traffic
and essentially swing it over to the
lansky syndicate coming out of asia and
running through the lansky holdings in
central america
and south america and the caribbean and
up into the united states
so between a rather short period of time
during the knicks administration this
was accomplished and as we talked about
uh not not the least important factor is
that richard nixon himself was already
strongly connected to organized crime
and the fact that his his own
administrations uh
previously uh uh unseen you know and
something like this has never been seen
before that his administration's
dealings in the drug trade should result
in a massive windfall
for the lansky syndicate and people who
are already involved
as organized crime people in helping the
nixon administration pursue their
covert political agenda again it
stretches coincidence a little bit too
far
uh for those of us who have been
studying this kind of stuff to believe
in fact it was coincidence
now again the important part about the
assassination team put together by the
nixon white house under a fellow named
lucian coney
was that most of the people involved in
it were not only quote former cia agents
but specifically there were very very
strong connections between this group
and the anti-castro cuban exile
community from the bay of pigs which in
turn was very much linked
to syndicate elements invol and cia
elements involved
in the narcotics traffic itself beyond
that
this uh alleged anti-narcotics
assassination team was heavily involved
in the uh latin american terror scene
many of the same elements worked in
conjunction
with cia in latin america so what we
have is the nixon white house
puts putting together an assassination
team allegedly to eliminate
the international narcotics traffic in
effect
this assassination team functions as an
extension of the us intelligence system
most of its agents are quote former
unquote intelligence agents who appear
to have been simply
infiltrated into the dea or the various
nixon white house
drug enforcement bodies because there
were a number of them in order to not
eliminate the narcotics traffic
but to corner it as we're about to look
at for the
nixon associated organized crime and
intelligence elements which have emerged
so prominently in our story of the
evolution of the narcotics traffic we're
talking cuba lobby here
we're talking china lobby we're talking
syndicate
lansky and sicilian and we're going to
take a look now
at henry kruger's analysis of how this
assassination team was employed
we're going to read now the 21st uh
chapter of the great heroin coup by
henry kruger called
the coup now as the introductory remarks
here are going to indicate
the thesis here that kruger is
developing is hypothetical
i agree with his thesis i think his
information is is quite compelling
but he makes it clear that this is his
interpretation
of the events the facts we've just laid
out in the previous two chapters
here is how kruger interprets those
facts
this chapter contains my personal
interpretation of the great heroin coup
errors are possible on any or all points
in as much as the clandestine operations
treated in this book transpire in a
closed world infested with lies and
cover-ups
there will always be loose ends the coup
itself
which transferred control over the
heroin gold mine from one part of the
world to another
i regard as a fact of life similarly do
i regard the involvement of elements of
the white house staff
just how high up it went the reader can
decide for him or herself
many of the many heretofore mentioned
details in the coup's planning and
execution i find the following essential
one prior to the coup lansky syndicate
narcotics boss santo trafficante junior
had made the necessary arrangements in
southeast asia and mexico
and had started a war with the corsican
mafia trafficante's old partner the cia
had long since assumed control over
southeast asia opium smuggling following
ed landsdale and lucian conan's defeat
of the local branch of the corsican
underworld
in 1971 when the coup's execution was
seriously underway
cuban exiles a group with which
trafficante enjoyed a unique rapport
appeared in the appeared in the white
house's mysterious narcotics operation
they were tied especially to conan and e
howard hunt
through a succession of bureaucratic
reorganizations the white house assumed
control over narcotics intelligence
and enforcement u.s narcotics officials
waged an all-out war against the
corsicans turkey marseille usa network
while warnings of a serious heroin
threat from southeast asia were all but
dismissed
when the corsican mafia was neutralized
the narcotics enforcement apparatus was
suddenly reorganized as the dea
and shortly thereafter heroin began
flowing into the united states from
southeast asia and mexico
the cia infiltrated dea grabbed control
of latin america's political repression
apparatus
was accused of protecting major
narcotics dealers and was exposed as an
accomplice to gun running finance with
the profits from the narcotics traffic
the white house eight the white house
protected robert vesco
who appears to be a central figure in
the scheme of heroin smuggling and gun
running
continuing in these eight points we find
the will the power and the motives not
for the once proclaimed victory over the
traffickers
but for the dramatic transfer of
underworld power that suddenly became a
reality
in nineteen seventy three the syndicate
was in on it the white house the cia and
special lobby groups were in on it too
at least indirectly but we still need to
ask who
in particular and why we will rely on
logic and guesswork only to identify
individual accomplices and their
particular contributions and motives
let us consider the landscape syndicate
represented by santo trafficante and his
cuban narcotics mafia
in addition to motives he might have
shared with the c i a traffic conti had
many other reasons to take part in the
heroin coup
first it meant cheaper heroin deliveries
and therefore greater profits
second he wanted the corsicans out
because behind his and the rest of the
syndicates backs
they had begun setting up their own u s
distribution network
finally traffic conti's drug mob did not
want to see a repeat of bnd operation
eagle
u s drug enforcement's last effective
raid against his network
what were the possibilities for traffic
kante's playing an active role in the
coup's execution
apart from preparation of the southeast
asia and mexico based networks
without help from the c i a and powerful
lobbies his chances were slim
with their assistance he could
infiltrate the narcotics nerve center
the white house here we might discuss
just who in fact helped him
if it is true that trafficante fought
the corsicans so bitterly from
seventy one on how can it be that marcel
bouquet
and his shrimp boat were seized in
february nineteen seventy two
with four hundred and twenty five kilos
of pure heroin enroute to traffic
hunting in florida
there is only one explanation which
bhukan himself offered in court
that become was set up by his american
client
how else can the unprecedented seizure
by french customs following a tip from
the cia be explained
if it was a plot to exhaust the stocks
of the remains remaining french heroin
rings
and thereby cause panic among the
corsicans then it worked
how guilty was richard nixon who
presided over the heroin coup
personally i believe that under strong
pressure he was a more or less willing
tool
rather than the force behind it all
pointing to nixon's guilt are his close
association with the cuba lobby
with people connected to lansky and
trophicante
and with robert vesco in addition his
dirty tricks department relied heavily
on cuban exiles
the cubans would never have supported
him with dangerous criminal acts
demonstrations donations and votes if he
had really been out to eliminate
their most profitable business nixon
would have been ruining the cuban mafia
into an extent the syndicate as well
and thereby his friends in florida he
would have been digging his own grave
thus nixon tackled the drug problem as
he did every political problem
he followed the path of least resistance
and that meant ignoring his criminal
allies in florida
and southeast asia while he hounded the
corsicans
who had no constituency to death that
nixon might have been involved in the
heroin coup for his own personal gain
has lent credence by the following quote
from dan molday's respected book the
hoffa wars
charter books 1978.
a former nixon aide not privy to the
hague investigation
says that one of his associates in the
white house mentioned to him sometime
during the impeachment
summer unquote that someone high up
maybe white house chief of staff alex
general alexander haig
was interested in nixon's possible
organized crime involvements unquote
that conversation involved a massive
payoff unquote from those
in army service club scandals in vietnam
during 1969 or 70.
the aid says that the service club
rip-offs quote involved the mafia and
millions of dollars and that the main
force of focus of the interest by
someone high up in the white house
was on whether the top mafia guy who ran
quote
all these things in southeast asia
unquote had made payoffs to nixon
the crime figure he says was the one who
was apparently known as the so-called
mastermind or architect of the southeast
asian drug trade
who was very powerful and very well
known as a mob leader
according to government narcotics
experts the central figure in the
indochina golden triangle narcotics
traffic
was santos trafficante unquote
in my opinion the central manipulator in
the whole narcotics scheme was the cia
or rather a faction within it it is
erroneous to treat the agency as a
monolith
various lobby groups have their own
agents in the company
generating internal power struggles that
reflect political polarizations external
to the cia
there are doubtless cia factions
wholeheartedly in favor of ending
america's policemen and oppressor roles
and in favor of social democratic rather
than right-wing regimes equally certain
is the fact that one should take the
agency's new outwardly benign face with
a grain of salt
within the agency there remain powerful
groups promoting continued support of
old friends in latin america and
southeast asia
the china cuba lobby has traditionally
been one of the most influential within
the cia
and there is little reason to believe
that the situation has seriously changed
finally the agency has laid low of late
as the carter administration has lobbied
for a relaxation of constraints placed
upon it by congress in the wake in the
wake of the 70s exposes of cia horror
stories
in addition to or rather behind the
cia's new official policy
there is also an unofficial one
it manifests itself in such matters as
the manipulation of the dea to perform
what previously had been
cia dirty work and in the toleration
if not encouragement of a large
apparently independent army of cuban
exile terrorists
available for action in latin america at
the request of the presiding dictators
the evidence suggests that the forces
behind the unofficial policy were able
to place many of their loyal cia agents
in the dea
and in such private intelligence agency
covers as intertel and wackenhut
where they continue their tasks while
letting the agency wash its hands
intelligence is still gathered by the
cia but some of the some of the dirtiest
operations are now performed by former
unquote agents we cannot of course
discount the possibility that the
unofficial policy is in fact executed by
former agents who had either been purged
from the agency or left in protest
against its more moderate line
however that implies that a renegade cia
faction now runs an independent secret
service
aided by lobby interests in other words
not
intertel but an even more powerful quote
third force
if that is so i could come up with only
one lobby group with the relevant
motives as well as the power to back
them
the world anti-communist league
otherwise known as
wacko wacl wackle can mobilize cia
agents closely associated with the china
cuba chile lobby
especially the large contingent of
former agents of the galen vlasov
organization
in parentheses the intelligence agency
run by hitler's master by reinhard galen
which became the bnd the west german
equivalent of the cia
e howard hunt was clearly the china
cuban latin american lobby's man
that he is also tied to wackol is
suggested by
the fact that william f buckley hunt's
close friend for twenty years and the
godfather of his children
was one of wackol's top u supporters
also connected to the same lobby groups
are lucy and conan
and the state department's former
intelligence chief ray s
klein who continues to be a frequent
guest at the taiwan world anti-communist
league stronghold
hunt and conan were the vital forces
behind the white house's great heroin
coup
hunt secured the cuban exiles their
necessary footing
and he got his friends bernard barker
and manuel artime to set up quote hit
teams to kidnap and murder latin
american narcotics traffickers
according to frank sturgis those
traffickers included members of august
record and christian david's grupo
francais
hunt persuaded asia angel crowe to bring
cia agents into the white house
narcotics apparatus
he told crowe that he knew quote key cia
officers who could be temporarily
detached from the agency
and employed by the new liaison group
unquote
it was hunt who recommended lucy and
coneen to head the group
finally it was intelligence reports from
the cia and conine's group which made
white house narcotics actions
focus almost exclusively on the
corsicans
conan's close friend mitch warbell iii
told journalist jim hogan
he quote found it difficult to believe
that a lifelong spy of conan's stature
could ever really leave the cia
accustomed to the use of other
government agencies as cia covers
where bell quite naturally held open the
possibility that conine's dea
job was no more than an exercise in
sheep dipping
the backgrounds and identities of the
dirty dozen all of whom were cia
veterans
unquote the desire to help its old
friends in southeast asia and latin
america
was not the cia's only motive for
promoting the heroin coup
the gallists in france including their
loyal adherents and intelligence agency
sdece
and their dirty tricksters in sac were
in the de gaulle era
the cia's arch enemies as well as rivals
for control of the world heroin trade
one can well imagine the cia joining
forces with george pompidou and other
pro-us forces in france
in crushing the old gallest intelligence
network
in 1973 with the corsicans finally
pushed out of the picture
the white house reorganized the
narcotics effort to form the dea
almost immediately heroin began flowing
to the u.s from new sources of supply
journalist ron rosenbaum cites the
following statement by a u.s
customs official quote bnd and customs
are finally getting somewhere they break
up the french connection
they're getting big conspiracy cases
suddenly they
the white house step in and there's this
big shake up
and by the time people get back to work
the mexican connection is set up
protected and doing big business what's
that
say to you unquote he might have added
that the southeast asian connection was
also protected
and doing big business the emergence of
the dea was the next to last
phase of the heroin coup hunt and
conan's cia agents moved into dea
intelligence in operation
coneen locating 12 latino cia agents in
his special operations group alone
the dirty dozen was officially created
to combat cuban and latin american
narcotics smugglers
allegedly following the assassination
approach conceived in the darkest
corners
of the white house it must have been a
gag
konin's forces were apparently directed
for the most part against small-town
independents who had competed with the
big time traffickers in on the heroin
coup
the biggest cuban network santo
trafficantes
went untouched miami's 1974-75 murder
wave in little havana
might even have been connected to the
activities of conan's cubans
the victims had opposed orlando bosch's
drive for solidarity and terrorism
a drive which as suggested by writer
hogan might well have enjoyed the
support of trafficante
and robert vesco of the latter two
certainly the first and quite possibly
the second as well were central figures
in the heroin coup
that brings us to the last the political
phase of the heroin coup
which began with the dea's 1974 takeover
of the cia's latin american torture and
repression apparatus
and ended with the 1976 creation of kuru
bosch's terrorist army ended
is however the incorrect word since the
brutalities financed by the heroin coup
continue
the dea or that part of it penetrated by
the cia
protects the major narcotics dealers the
latter in turn support
financially and through gun-running
anti-communist paramilitary groups which
work hand-in-hand with latin american
police and military forces
whose death squads and torturers are
supervised by agents of the dea
the infiltration of the dea and the
variety of political assignments for its
agents
have caused such violent splits within
the bureau that one can speak of two
wings which fight one another
one wing carries out guns for drugs and
protection programs
the other tries desperately to combat
the drug traffic carried out or
protected by the first
among the expressions of this bitter
internal strife apparently
are the cecilia falcone and werbedel
cases and the dismissal of dea director
bartels
for suspected corruption recently the
use of drug profits to finance
right-wing terrorism has been placed in
a new perspective by revelations of
cuban exile teamwork
with european and latin american
fascists and the economic support of the
world anti-communist league for the same
anti-communist groups
and that brings us to the final link in
the chain of drugs
intelligence and fascism and that would
emphasize
that uh our next radio free america show
is going to cover
that final link and the next link we're
going to talk not only about klaus
barbie in the cocaine situation
but about this final intersection the
final link as kruger puts it in the
chain of drugs intelligence
and fascism let me add that broadcasting
from foothill college this is kfjc los
altos hills we're not going to go to
that last section
uh that this next topic in tonight's
broadcast we're going to read
a little bit more about the actual
results of uh
cougars thesis here the great heroin
coup the uh use of former cia agents in
the dea not to eliminate the heroin
traffic but to corner it
for nixon's intelligence and organized
crime uh
allies we're going to look at the
results of the heroin
coup in terms of the actual heroin
traffic itself
because the actual subject of the use of
the dea and narcotics trafficking for
right wing terror is going to occupy the
bulk of our next broadcast we should
actually
have some time for some phone calls here
maybe after a telephone break
but we're going to continue with some
more information here
all right reading a little bit more from
the great heroin coup
from 1975 until the end of 1978
the dea consistently maintained that
between 80 and 90 percent of the heroin
consumed in the united states was
mexican
however the claim doesn't stand up
against the following facts
one eighty percent of the world's heroin
exactly the figure exported from
marseille until 1972
was at least until late 1976 produced
from opium harvested in the golden
triangle
and distributed via bangkok singapore
and hong kong
two the number of arrests of couriers on
route from
southeast asia increased steadily after
1973.
three reports from new york and other
big cities testified to the arrival of
large shipments of white heroin
from southeast asia four the market
supply of heroin did not dwindle despite
aerial destruction of an estimated 60
percent of mexico's poppy fields in
early 1976
5. an effective tidal wave of golden
triangle heroin began flooding europe in
while many couriers on route to the us
and canada were nabbed by european
police
six the dea was aware of santo
trafficante's dealings in southeast asia
as well as the later mafia summit in
palermo
where large sums of money were set aside
for investment in the golden triangle
seven it was easy to verify the
narcotics flow from mexico since the
border was subject to close surveillance
but to conclude that most of the heroin
on the u.s market originated in mexico
was a stretch of logic even the da
dea had to admit the tenuousness of its
claims
of 24 on february 24th 1976 the dea's
john cusack
cusack admitted that his agency's
estimate that only 8 percent of u.s
heroin came from southeast asia was
surprising considering the region's
prolific opium production
he added quote we are also concerned
about our detection during 1975 of
substantial qualities of what quantities
of white number four heroin
moving directly from bangkok to the
united states
in december for example 46 kilograms of
heroin were seized in bangkok
concealed in the household effects
shipment of a returning u.s serviceman
follow-up investigation in the
development of an extensive conspiracy
prosecution
has identified 12 additional shipments
entering the united states
since 1974. unquote
12 such shipments meant 552 kilos
or more than the entire 472 kilos
confiscated in the us in 1975
and from only one of many southeast
asian smuggling networks
cusack went even further quote it
appears
almost certain that the bulk of the
white heroine found during 1975
in the inner city areas of our eastern
cities has been
asian number four smuggled from bangkok
why then did the dea continue to
overstate mexico's role
and minimize southeast asia even after
the publication in 1972 of alfred
mccoy's the politics of heroin in
southeast asia
perhaps to justify the great expenditure
in support of right-wing military and
police forces in latin america
the later boom in colombian cocaine
would also provide justification
southeast asia was downplayed so as not
to jeopardize relations with america's
loyal if corrupt allies
most of all taiwa thailand taiwan and
the latter's overseas agents
they were allowed to profit from opium
and heroin in relative
relative peace another reason
the dea could not expose the southeast
asia connection without compromising the
cia
a secret 1977 house government
operations subcommittee report
accused the cia of helping an asian
opium ring smuggle drugs into the united
states and then lying about it to
congress
putin porn crom crew on p-u-t-t-a
p-o-r-n
k-h-r-a-m-k-h-r-u-a-n a thai national
was arrested in 1973 for smuggling 59
pounds of pure opium into the u.s
via jfk airport citing national security
interests
the agency had the case squelched and
krom crew on was sent back home
however the house committee eventually
established that he was a cia operative
in thailand
in fact he was on the payroll of a cia
proprietary using the agency for
international development
aid as a cover for training the corrupt
thai border police
furthermore crom crew on told a dea
investigator that he had been an officer
in the kuomintang army
and guarded opium mule caravans his cia
contact was the u.s consul in chiang mai
thailand in its report the house
committee stated quote
it was ironic that the cia should be
given the responsibility of narcotics
intelligence
particularly since they are supporting
the prime movers unquote
i'm going to read that last sentence
again quoting from a house committee
report it was ironic that the cia should
be given the responsibility of narcotics
intelligence particularly since they are
supporting
the prime movers in march 1977 the dea
began to speak of
major maneuvers in the international
asian narcotics
market for a share of the us drug scene
unquote and
of a coalition between the u.s mafia the
corsicans and the chu
chao chinese triad unquote the coalition
had in reality existed at least since
and perhaps as early as trafficante's
1968 journey to the east
and it had functioned effectively
shipping large amounts of heroin to the
u s since nineteen seventy two and three
the difference was that the corsican arm
of the coalition their own
umbrella organization having been
smashed was now essentially reduced to
some 100 men working with the us mafia
and the chinese
most of them as chemists in thailand's
mobile heroin labs
who has controlled the golden triangle
opium traffic and heroin production
since the establishment of the mafia
chinese coalition
besides the cia that is the answer
is the kuomintang kmt china the komen
tang chinese and overseas chu chao
syndicate
men such as chiang chi foo lo singh han
tsai ching chan sai chin chang
and older more familiar figures like
general lai me
still ahead of what's left of the
kuomintang forces general lee resides in
luxury outside chiang mai
and received official visits there from
the united states as recently as late
1976.
in 1976 and seven a minor war was about
to erupt over the control of the
region's
opium traffic and mobile refineries
potential combatants
were chu chi fu's united shan army of
rebels against the burmese regime
and kuomintang forces under general lee
however the opposing leaders were
brought together by a senior thai
officer
and an agreement was reached on the
marketing of drugs and supply of arms to
fight communist forces in burma's sean
states
again we see the connection between
narcotics and anti-communist
paramilitary operations
albeit chu chi fu later pulled out of
the agreement was arrested in thailand
and eventually extradited to burma
the dea's golden triangle unit sno made
many whole
and half-hearted attempts to eradicate
the narcotics plague
all failed production has been great the
world's heroin market having multiplied
in the seventies
sna won't say outright that the cia is
undermining them
nor that politics underlies their
constant failures
an sno agent nevertheless came close to
doing this in his 1976 statement to
alfred mccoy quote
if they were selling shares in golden
triangle heroin incorporated in 5
10 and 20-year bonds i would put my
money on a 20-year bond
the only thing that would end the whole
golden triangle business would be a
communist takeover in thailand
if that happened i'd sell my stock
unquote
here again the point being that the
great heroin coup not only
shifted the control of the heroin
traffic from the corsican syndicate
to their sicilian and cuban and cia
competitors
but beyond that the main focus of the
heroin traffic was not mexico as
was uh being valid about bandied about i
should say
by the dea but rather southeast asia and
i think it's worth
worth uh bearing in mind krueger's not
only his analysis of the possible role
of the galen world anti-communist league
organization in this narcotics traffic
and the use of
parallel police for anti-communist
terror read anti-democratic terror
because
according to wacko and cia elements
basically a communist that is anyone who
doesn't believe in the fascism but
that's i think that there are an awful
lot of
uh graves marked and unmarked all around
the world that would testify to that
graves of priests
school teachers and all kinds of other
people who are not communists but we're
not fascists either and paid dearly for
that philosophy
i think it's worth considering the
tremendous amount of uh press being
given to
mexico as a center of corruption and
drug traffic to this day
and whether or not the uh the attention
being focused on mexico again
serves to provide the pretext for the
use
of mexico of the dea and other
organizations
for the use of the intelligence and
quote anti-communist
breed fascist operations indeed and and
also as we were talking about at the
beginning of the broadcast many of the
current things going on
um in terms of not just the iran and
nicaraguan
uh scandal story coming out but a lot of
the current administration policy has
begun to
come back in bits and pieces as being
tied into the narcotics trade of course
uh we have become massive suppliers in
the past
uh seven eight years now of the afghan
guerrillas the the mujahideen
uh through pakistan of course this is
one of the reasons that
that general zia al-haq is still in
charge in in pakistan
a man is a it's a military uh government
it's all practically martial law in
in pakistan um and uh zlahak of course
is our man there and we are using
pakistan as our conduit for
weapons to the mujahideen gorillas but
on the flip side
recently packages of hashish have been
showing up in the united states
with the mujahideen with mujahideen
slogans and propaganda on them uh you
know buy
buy a gram of hash kill or russian
etcetera etcetera that sort of thing
that's just one opportu one example of
course we talked at great length about
what's going on with nicaragua
now interestingly enough at the time
that uh now remember george
bush our current vice president um and
remember that too also this is a rather
interesting parallel because of richard
nixon
as vice president sort of putting
together his connections
um to the drug trade and these other
various trades and
the intelligence apparatus and all these
things uh preparatory to becoming
president as he felt he would in 1960
and setting up things like
the the bay of pigs operation again
thinking that he was going to be the
president in 1960
bear that in mind with george bush who
of course is the uh
the the heir apparent george bush
himself also
naturally a former dc dcia director of
the cia during the time a lot of this
stuff was being consolidated in 1975 and
and a lot of the connections uh between
the cia
and the latin american death squads are
becoming institutionalized
more recently as vice president george
bush was down in florida as head of a
dea
task force that was supposedly going to
put the blocks
to the uh the drug traffic once and for
all well
leaving the obvious absurdity of that
aside since as we've
talked about at great length and we'll
talk at even greater length during the
next radio free america
uh the cocaine trade is largely a
creature of the uh
the the right wing the american
right-wing and
latin american right-wing with some help
from the european right wing
um but uh leaving the absurdity of
george bush's
claim that he's stamping it out aside
one of those very self-same former cia
agents that we talked about at great
length frank turple suggested
that in fact george bush's whole dea
operation in florida was just a further
excuse to inject the cia
to use the dea as a form of hypodermic
which is in fact what henrik kruger is
talking about
using the dea as a form of hypodermic to
inject the cia
covertly into further areas of latin
american politics
now besides the great heroin coup which
is is uh probably the best source for
the stuff we're talking about tonight
which is why we use it at such great
length
um the the cited book alfred mccoy's
politics of heroin in southeast asia
lays out a lot of the ground we've
talked about an earlier broadcast
there's some rather interesting things
that crop up in some other books as well
i'm going to recommend one or two and i
think dave's got some to recommend
one of them is a book called hidden
terrors by aj
langeth which goes in some length about
the aid connections the aid for
international
development they were talking this in
this
in the great heroin coup krueger was
talking about uh
police officers who are trained in these
uh these
terror factories essentially in the
united states and sent back down to
latin america oftentimes the cia and dea
oversight trained in
in basically repressive measures torture
and assassination
and hidden terrors by aj langeth a
formerly a writer i believe for the new
york times
is a book entirely about the death of
dan mitrione an american police chief
who with connections to the cia who was
in fact just that kind of american
operative
in latin america uruguay and brazil
among others
their variety of other books spooks by
james hogan james hogan was quoted in
during this book is one that you might
also want to check out
there are a couple of other books i
would like to emphasize though that uh
the material here
is probably the best we'll we'll go into
those perhaps understand the best
single analysis of the interrelationship
between as kruger puts it drugs
intelligence and international fascism
ever done
and again the use of the dea not only to
cornell the narcotics traffic
but in turn as a vehicle of the us
intelligence apparatus
and as a major adjunct to the latin
american terror campaigns
shouldn't be overlooked we will we're
we're kicking around the possibility
obviously it'll have to be clear to the
programming of perhaps in may during
kfjc's month of mayhem when we do
particular special programming may be
doing a two-part series
on the iron agua or iran gate contra
gate
where we will review the not only the
anti-castro cubans
many of the same elements involved in
the kuru bosch terror campaign
their involvement in this whole
situation and the the role of narcotics
and the narcotics traffic
in the system that we're seeing down uh
that's exploding
right now on the u.s scene and in terms
of the the iran contra gate scandal
in our next broadcast we will be talking
about the cocaine trade
and taking krueger's next step the
development of the narcotics traffic as
a major source of
quote anti-communist terror and again
the working definition of a communist
being anybody who opposes fascism
and i think the activities for example
in places like guatemala
guatemala el salvador and argentina will
bear very eloquent
if perhaps silent witness to that
situation uh
you know archbishop romero in el
salvador
was not exactly a flaming communist and
yet he was assassinated by these quote
anti-communist death squads i think
that's a good example
uh we will be talking about that not
only in our next broadcast but
like i said possibly in may uh we're
going to take up the iran contra gate
scandal and maybe a two-part
archive series we would like to let it
percolate for a little while because
obviously there's more information
coming out
we were going to do one after our second
program but so much has come out since
that we're both pretty glad that we did
not
leap ahead since any archive show that
we would have done at that time would be
awfully incomplete compared to what we
have coming out
at the same time we don't want to let it
develop like we did the pope shooting
because we don't have to do five
five hour things you know in a future
day i'll i'll say that for sure
but going back to some good books to
read on the subject there's an excellent
book called
of grass and snow by hank messick the
author of lansky one of the definitive
works
on meyer lansky a key player in the
nixon white house and this whole
great heroin coup scenario proposed by
henrik kruger
also an excellent book called the
heroine trail by the authors of newsday
also the aforementioned pair off by l.h
widamore talking about the suppression
of the robert vesco connection i think
it's worth mentioning too that robert
vesco
has been mentioned as being among the
people who was involved with
alleged son anista drug trafficking and
alleged
castro cuban drug trafficking whereas as
we've seen robert vesco's affiliations
are primarily on the other side of the
fence
and indeed the alleged contra alleged
son and easter
drug smuggling has now appeared to be uh
not only not sun and easter but indeed
contra drug smuggling with the case of
adler berry seal something we will be
taking up when we go into
iran conjugate so again there's a lot of
information that we've presented this
evening uh what we're going to do
now is take a musical break we haven't
got a phone screener with us but if
people would like to
phone in and uh discuss some of the
information we've talked about so we do
have almost
45 minutes until 11 o'clock this is you
should treasure the opportunity we
seldom have phone calls in one of our
archive shows but the
uh this is sort of the end of one major
phase of what we've been talking about
and rather than take up what is really
the subject of an entire next
archive show our fourth in this series
and we got at least one more to talk
about how the cia unloaded the
psychedelic era quote-unquote on people
uh we we thought rather than sort of
open another whole door we'd uh
sort of seal off the entity here but uh
the phone number up here is area code
415-941-2500
what we'll do is we'll take three calls
you know clear screen three calls and
then uh
go and take the calls and then if we you
know depending on how fast they go
put on some more music screen three more
calls and so forth so uh
if people would like to call in at this
point we have almost 45 minutes
that's right now there's always the
possibilities that everybody has their
their tapes on and they're not going to
find out that we're calling for phone
calls until they put the tape on
tomorrow but
we will take a musical break and if you
are out there and you would like to talk
about some of this stuff
as dave mentioned i think it's been
about 12 or 13 or maybe